here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom the latest Intel
crosstalk vulnerability has been patched
in Debian CentOS and Red Hat Enterprise
Linux Sony has unveiled the look of the
PS 5 facebook's giphy takeover is being
halted while the UK competition and
Markets Authority investigate the deal
researchers have discovered a way to
record audio in real time by focusing a
telescope on a distant light bulb and
the pine tab Linux tablet from Pine 64
is now available for pre-order and you
can get one for just $100 stick around
the full details and this week's crypto
corner are coming up this is the
category 5 dot TV newsroom covering your
week stop texting with a slight linux
bias
the newsroom I'm Becca Ferguson the
latest Intel crosstalk vulnerability is
now patched in Debian gnu/linux sent OS
Linux as well as Red Hat Enterprise
Linux systems the recently found
hardware vulnerability known as
crosstalk was discovered by researchers
from view university Amsterdam in some
Intel processors the flaw could allow
local attackers or virtual machine
guests to expose sensitive information
like cryptographic keys from other users
or VMS already patched in all supported
Ubuntu releases the vulnerability has
also now been patched in Debian Buster
and stretch plus sent OS 6 &amp; 7 as well
as Red Hat Enterprise Linux version 6 &amp;
7 to mitigate the vulnerability in their
systems users will have to install the
latest Linux kernel and Intel micro code
updates which are now available in the
stable software repositories of their
distributions
although Debian stretch users must
enable the non free repository to get
the patch make sure you reboot your
systems after installing the new Linux
kernel and Intel micro code updates
Sony has given gamers a first look at
the design of its next console as well
as some of the titles it will play due
to the corona virus pandemic Sony opted
to stream a pre-recorded video rather
than host a live event the PlayStation 5
has a black core surrounded by curved
white edging and a blue glow to follow
ups two best-selling ps4 releases were
among the standout games announcements
spider-man Miles Morales and horizon for
bid in West Sony's machine will launch
alongside Microsoft's rival Xbox series
X before the end of the year so many
people remarked that the console looked
like a Wi-Fi router that the term
trended on Twitter shortly after the
event more than two dozen new games were
shown off in total other highlights
included a first look at Sony's racing
game Gran Turismo 7 and a brief look at
Cap Korn Capcom's zombie horror game
Resident Evil 8 the play
station five is set to go on sale later
this year seven years after the ps4 in
addition to being able to deliver
improve visuals the new machine also has
a customized harddrive that will make it
possible to radically reduce load times
sony is building a library of launch
titles that will only be available on
its next-generation machine including
some brand new titles never-before-seen
one of the more unusual games was stray
a third-person cat adventure that set in
a neon-lit cyber city there was no
mention of any virtual reality games
however nor was there any mention of a
PlayStation 5 version of the Last of Us
2 rather than a quantum leap this next
generation looks like it might be built
around lots of smaller improvements in
areas like audio with 3d sound and
improved haptic feedback in the
controller beyond better visuals and
faster loading times what does the next
generation actually mean when it comes
to games on this evidence more of the
same shooters racers third-person
adventure titles and sports games things
we already have but graphically improved
Facebook's takeover of Gylfie a search
engine for funny reaction images is
being investigated by the UK's
competition authority jiffy's vast
library of looping short video
animations is hugely popular in
Facebook's apps but it also provides
animations to competitors like tick-tock
snapchat snapchat snapchat and Twitter
now the UK competition in markets
authority CMA is investigating whether
the purchase is a problem it has sent an
enforcement order to Facebook
effectively putting a hold on any
merging of the companies until its
investigation is over announcing the
acquisition in May this year facebook
said that half of jiffy's traffic comes
from facebook apps including whatsapp
and Instagram but it also said that the
deal worth a reported four hundred
million dollars would not affect deals
in place with other partners the CMA
however said it was investigating
whether or not the acquisition may be
expected to result
in a substantial lessening of
competition but the enforcement means
Facebook has to keep the jiffy company
staff and Technology separate from
Facebook itself unless it gets advanced
written permission from the CMA it is
not the first time concerns have been
raised about the Facebook Jaffe deal
with questions raised over the level of
access Facebook would have to its
competitors data through the service the
CMA is inviting comments until July 3rd
with no date set for its decision
the pine tab Linux tablet from pine
sixty-four is now available for
pre-order becca has these stories coming
up plus roberts here with the crypto
corner don't go anywhere
welcome to the cryptic one as usual
we'll start with the market the market
hasn't changed significantly in the
total volume 270 billion it was similar
to last week but there has been a dip in
the last few days and the market hasn't
record since then although as you can
see last 24 hours
most of the coins are in in green so a
Bitcoin is now at four 9450 for us tall
us and if we sought by 7 days you will
see that a few coins had some fantastic
gains I mean we've got birch with
seventy seven point five percent gain
and in total that fifteen tokens coins
that had again over fifteen percent and
if we sought by dance above negative we
only had two coins that had done Trent
don't was Trent over fifteen percent it
shows that the market is maturing and
growing as it was also last week if we
look at my favorite subject
decentralized fairness defy market this
one has grown by almost 1 billion in one
week it was last week 2.4 billion now
it's 3.3 billion the biggest one is now
compound as you remember from last week
and the previous week's with maker Dow
is the number one and that has changed
now and by significant difference it's
now compound being the number one with a
growth in 24 hours of over 40 percent so
this market is heating up and it's
getting more and more interesting from
day to day
now another subject is and this this is
interesting for everybody here because
you hear so many opinions on how the
market is performing it's going up it's
going down the future's going bright
it's dark and I just want to show you
one example of what has happened in the
past and it is here JP Morgan their CEO
Jamie Dimon
said this was in 2000 safety 17 he said
that bitcoin is a fraud and that
everybody would fire everybody and he
said that openly in the forum and he
would fire every about everyone in the
bank that is trading Bitcoin in a second
now interesting enough if we look into
the news from this week we see that JP
Morgan completely surprised surprises
with a bet bit coin flip so now they
know supporting Bitcoin and that's the
interesting part you need to really form
your own opinion in this market don't
listen to the so-called experts because
you see JP Morgan one of the biggest
banks in the world suddenly changes the
opinion overnight and so they're not
real experts you're the own expert just
form your own opinion when you follow a
coin or you want to do an investment
next one is an analysis on the on the
development of some coins and its
outlier ventures that did an analysis
and which was quite interesting so they
see that there has been a downturn in
development for around 20% in average
but some again as polka-dot has got
increased in substantial rise in develop
activity polka-dot in Cosmos 15% and
theta and Caetano increased the core
development significantly it's
interesting because they did a very
thorough analysis on on how the market
is currently developing from the
technological point of view the
development and so on I will put a link
of this PDF file in in the in the in the
description next headline is you
remember China they have launched
already their cryptocurrency the fiat
cryptocurrency in our Korea is doing the
same thing they're applying the ACS
everybody every countries suddenly
jumping on this strain of having a
cryptocurrency back system
next one is an analysis last week I
reported about pw0 analysis on the hedge
fund industry and here this one was done
by fidelity digital assets and they've
got some interesting findings too so a
survey of 800 institutional investors in
the US and Europe found almost 80%
intrigued by digital assets with 36%
already invested in the market and
broken down by market it looks like
Europe which seems to be more bullish
than the US because only 27% of the
institutions of the US institutions then
that includes pension funds family
offices investment advisors and digital
and transitional hedge funds have
invested in cryptocurrencies but this is
up from 22% a year ago so it went up by
5% it's an interesting development I
would say and it shows that the
investors in the investment market is
participating in our industry and last
but not least is and I put also a link
of that report in the in the show notes
last one is the human rights foundation
launched a Bitcoin development fund and
so the HRF launches a fund to support
developers who are making the Bitcoin
more private and decentralized and
resilient so that it can be better that
it can better serve as a financial tool
for human right activists I find that
also interesting that human rights
foundation is supporting with cash
developers to make our Bitcoin a little
bit more private so that's it from me
this week I hope I hope you enjoyed it
and I'm looking forward to see you next
week with some I guarantee you fantastic
news and yeah until then I wish you
great week and thank you very much for
watching thank you Robert just a
reminder that we're not providing
financial advice but simply sharing
what's happening in the cryptocurrency
market always remember that the
cryptocurrency markets are ever-changing
and
always volatile so you should only spend
what you can afford to lose now back to
Becca in the newsroom Thank You Robbie
in an era of digital eavesdropping where
hackers employ a variety of means to
take over built-in video cameras peruse
personal digital data and snoop on
cellular conversations researchers have
seen the light literally viewers in the
UK will want to make sure their license
is up-to-date because here's an upgrade
the BBC might want to add to their TV
detector vans Israeli researchers report
that they successfully tapped into
speech and music inside an apartment
simply by focusing on a light bulb in a
paper published over the weekend the
researchers said all they needed were a
telescope and a $400 optical sensor
which they used to measure barely
perceptible light bulb vibrations
triggered by either voices or music in
the room
the research team conducted the test by
pointing a telescope towards a light
bulb in an apartment building 27 yards
away capturing the vibrations from the
ball they were able to reconstruct with
fair quality let it be by the Beatles
clocks by Coldplay and a snippet of a
speech by President Trump the
researchers said we show how
fluctuations in the air pressure on the
surface of the hanging bulb in response
to sound which caused the bulb to
vibrate very slightly
Amil a debris vibration can be exploited
by eavesdroppers to recover speech and
singing passively externally and in real
time they noted that a direct line of
sight to the bulb is required lampshades
or window curtains will prevent it from
working also the test sounds were played
at maximum volume the approach called
lamp phone is an improvement over recent
developments in eavesdropping technology
been NaCI a developer of the program
explained any sound in the room can be
recovered from the room with no
requirement to hack anything and no
device in the room
you just need line of sight to head to a
hanging bulb and this is it previous
comparable approaches include the
memorable 2014
microphone developed by MIT Microsoft
and Adobe that reconstructed speech and
music from a room by analyzing micro
vibrations from a bag of potato chips
sitting on a table while impressive the
device required massive computational
power and much time to analyze recorded
vibrations lamp phone can be conducted
in real-time the wait is finally over as
the pine table pre-orders are now open
for everyone
powered by the latest Ubuntu touch OS
from UV ports the pine tab features a
beautiful 10.1 inch HD IPS compositive
touchscreen at 1280 by 800 pixels and is
powered by an all winner a 64 chip
combined with a 64-bit quad-core 1.2
gigahertz arm cortex a53 processor and
the Mallee 400 GPU it comes with a
replaceable 64 gigabytes emmc module 2
gigabytes ram and a micro SD card slot
supporting up to 2 terabyte cards the
pine tab also features a rear 5
megapixel camera with LED flash and a
selfie 2 megapixel camera it has stereo
speakers a detachable backlit keyboard
option that can also act as a cover or
stand and a removable battery for neck
for connectivity it has the usual
suspects Wi-Fi Bluetooth and so on but
it also has a headphone jack plus USB
ports including OTG and video HD output
which really helps the pine tabs stand
out at this price point you can get your
hands on the latest Linux tablet from
Pine 64 right now for only $99.99 USD or
a hundred and nineteen ninety-eight USD
with the detachable backlit keyboard
according to pine sixty-four the
estimated shipping time is currently set
for late July
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
if you appreciate what we do become a
patron at patreon.com slash category 5
from the category 5 TV newsroom I'm
Becca Ferguson
