here's was coming up in the category
five TV newsroom
Equifax has finally settled following
their massive data breach but as it
turns out none of the money will be
going to you or me as previously
promised Facebook has bought jiffy is
this real life
Microsoft is now the biggest single
contributor to open source can a
computer write a hit song
we'll find out and one plus is
apologizing for an apparent accidental
x-ray camera feature that lets users of
its new phone see through clothing stick
around the full details are coming up
this is the category five dot TV
newsroom covering the week stop texting
with a slight linux bias
from the newsroom I'm Becca Ferguson
Equifax has finally agreed to pay
compensation for the massive security
breach at suffered in 2017 that led to
the theft of at least 146 million
people's personal info but before you
get excited the money won't be going to
you but rather to your bank which will
be paid for the hassle of having to
cancel your payment cards that's right
the credit agency has agreed to pay 5.5
million to thousands of banks and credit
unions who said they were injured by
their customers details being siphoned
off by hackers and a further 25 million
to beef up data security
Equifax will also cover the bank's
administrative costs attorney fees and
relevant expenses which raises the
question what happened to the 125 that
America's consumer watchdog the FTC
proudly announced that we would get
thanks to its record-breaking 700
million dollar settlement with Equifax
it's been more than two and a half years
since they were hacked and just under a
year since the 700 million settlement
was met so it's perhaps surprising that
not a cent appears to be for the people
directly impacted by the cyber break in
the 125 dollar headline fig figure it
turns out was made with the assumption
that only a very small percentage of
those eligible would actually apply but
thanks to the sheer size of the league
the issue was extensively covered in the
press and that massively increased the
number of people who applied for
compensation this forced the FTC to
admit that it hadn't agreed to a
per-person fine but rather lump sum that
would be split equally between
applicants not only that but behind the
700 million headline figure was a
different reality the FTC had agreed to
just 31 million for the pot that was to
be split equally among individual
applicants the rest was earmarked for
those who demonstrated they were left
out of pocket by the hack mitigations
money for states and so on
so while Equifax settles with states and
banks and hopefully those consumers who
rejected the FTC's terrible deal it
seems that no money will be forthcoming
for those who have gone to the trouble
of trying to get the one how
25 they were promised seven years ago
Facebook claimed not to support the 21st
century's new favorite communication
tool
the animated jiff oh how times have
changed now Facebook's newest
acquisition is one of the Internet's
most popular jiff hosting sites Facebook
is making Jiffy part of the Instagram
team the deal is reportedly valued at
about 400 million according to Facebook
about half of jiffy's current traffic
already comes from Facebook products
especially Instagram that's perhaps
unsurprising given that Facebook's big 3
apps whatsapp Instagram and Facebook
itself have billions of daily users
among them jiff he was in fact the first
service to make animated images work on
Facebook
it created a workaround back in 2013
when Facebook's now laughable official
stance was Facebook does not support
animated gifs
although animated reaction images may
seem and kind of are inconsequential in
the grand scheme of things the deal is
likely to attract a significant amount
of scrutiny from federal regulators the
Justice Department Congress and the
Federal Trade Commission are already all
delving into even the smallest lowest
value acquisitions that big tech firms
such as Facebook have made in the last
decade scouring them for patterns of
anti-competitive behavior Gylfie is by
no means the only just search and
hosting platform on the internet but it
is one of the largest several other
platforms including Twitter use its API
for gifs support both Facebook and
Gylfie promised the access will continue
in its announcement jiffy specifically
said for our API SDK partners and
developers jiffy's gifs stickers emojis
etc aren't going anywhere we will
continue to make Gylfie openly available
to the wider ecosystem with the
announcements fail what the
announcements failed to mention however
is the fact that Facebook can now have
access to all the data generated by
those searches and API calls from other
platforms and using acquisitions to
gather data on competitors is exactly
the sort of behavior Facebook is under
investigation for
right now back in 2002 thousand won
Microsoft CEO at the time Steve Ballmer
famously branded Linux a cancer that
attaches itself in an intellectual
property sense to everything it touches
but Microsoft has admitted it was wrong
about open source after the company
battled it and Linux for years at the
height of its desktop domination now the
pigs are flying because Microsoft's
current president Brad Smith believes
the company was wrong about open source
he says Microsoft was on the wrong side
of history when opus open source
exploded at the beginning of the century
and I can say that about me personally
Smith has been at Microsoft for more
than 25 years and was one of the
company's senior lawyers during his
battles with open source software he
adds the good news is that if life is
long enough you can learn that you need
to change
Microsoft has certainly changed since
the days of branding Linux of cancer the
software giant is now the single largest
contributor to open source projects in
the world beating Facebook docker Google
Apache and many others others Microsoft
has gradually been adopting open source
in recent years including open sourcing
PowerShell Visual Studio code and even
Microsoft edgers original JavaScript
engine Microsoft has also partnered with
canonical to bring Ubuntu to Windows 10
and it acquired xamarin to aid mobile
app development and github to maintain
the popular code repository for
developers
Microsoft is even shipping a full Linux
kernel in a Windows 10 update that will
release later this month and it moved to
the chromium browser engine for edge
last year Microsoft is also
collaborating with open source
communities to create power toys for
Windows 10 and the company is now open
design philosophy philosophy may may
mean we'll see a lot more open source
efforts in Windows in the years to come
we've got to take a quick break I've got
some cryptocurrency numbers for you and
or of this week's top tech stories are
coming up with Becca Ferguson don't go
anywhere
[Music]
all right we don't have a crypto corner
for you this week but I wanted to still
share with you kind of where things are
at in the market we saw a dip about four
or five days ago where cryptocurrency
values went way down but right now
things are up like nine to ten percent
as far as Bitcoin goes we're at about
nine thousand six hundred ninety four
dollars and eight cents aetherium is at
two hundred and thirteen dollars and
twelve cents XRP is still just a micro
coil at twenty cents per coin let's look
at at some of those little guys like
well
litecoin is not a little guy but I
should say that they're up 6.8% this
week at $45 and 14 cent Fiat value on
each individual coin let's see if I can
find turtle coin on our website category
five dot TV slash crypto report because
I'm curious where things are at these
days head on over to our website
category five dot TV slash crypto report
and you'll be able to do the same just
scroll down and you'll be able to see
the current value of each of these coins
Scalla kinda all over the place right
there and there's our turtle coin
holding fairly consistent a little bit
of a drop there but right now sitting at
a whole hundred and fifteen micro
pennies when is it gonna go to the moon
folks when is it gonna go to the moon
I'll never know hey don't forget crypto
currency the whole market is volatile
it's always changing and we suggest that
you only invest what you can afford to
lose it's a lot of fun and it could go
really well for you but at the same time
it could go all sorts of awry so keep
that in mind now back to Becca in the
newsroom Thank You Robby last week we
learned that Facebook trained their own
chat BOTS AI using posts from reddit but
a team of musicologists have done
something similar setting their
songwriting bots loose on the social
platform a team of Dutch academics who
after an experiment in song writing
using artificial intelligence algorithms
inadvertently created a new musical
genre Eurovision techno fear the team
used AI techniques to generate a hit
predictor based on the melodies and
rhythms of more than 200 classics from
the Eurovision Song Contest an annual
celebration of pop music and Kitsch he's
included Abbas Waterloo and laureen's
euphoria 2012 also Sweden but to
generate the lyrics for the song of us
which the team members hoped to enter in
the inaugural AI Song Contest this year
they also used a separate AI system one
based on the social media platform
reddit it was this that resulted in a
rallying cry for a revolution with a
song that crescendos as a robotic voice
urges listeners to kill the government
kill the system like the notorious
a chat bot developed by Microsoft in
2016 that started spewing racist and
sexist sentiments after being trained on
Twitter the fault lay with the human
sources of data not the algorithms
Jane's speech Control Eirik generator
stresses we do not condone these lyrics
she says the team nevertheless decided
to keep the anarchist sentiment to show
the perils of applying AI even to the
relatively risk-free environment of
Europop the use of AI and music
composition is now on the cusp of the
mainstream as more musicians and
songwriters look for tools that inspire
different types of music the AI song
contest organized by Dutch broadcaster V
Pro is one of the first events to take
the process of using algorithms to
compose original music out of academia
and avant-garde experimentation and into
the commercial world when the 1+8 Pro
was first announced the photo kromm mode
appeared to be little more than an
artistic color filter while it produces
some interesting results when
photographing trees and plants as it
turns out it allows the users to see
through smoke or fog or clothing the
filter seems to work by capturing
infrared light that is
otherwise invisible to the naked eye
there are many professional uses for
cameras that can see infrared light such
as allowing firefighters to see through
smoke but it's less common in a consumer
device like a smartphone although the
company has stressed that the photo
chrome filter cannot see through thick
materials it apologized for creating
privacy concerns and causing troubles
for oneplus users and other netizens the
company said in a statement on its
english-language forum while we think
this camera gives users the ability to
get more creative with the smartphone
photography we also understand the
concerns that have been raised oneplus
will remove the accidental x-ray
functionality from its oneplus pro 8 Pro
phone in an upcoming over-the-air update
the company said Tuesday it's also
temporarily disabling the camera filter
they can see through plastic and
clothing in the Chinese version of its
operating system until the update is
released choosing to leave it
operational in its global OS big thanks
to Roy W Nash and our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and if you
appreciate what we do become a patron at
patreon.com slash category 5 from the
category 5 TV newsroom I'm Becca
Ferguson thanks back
