[Music]
welcome to this week's coffee break
everybody it is anybody know the date
what is the fifth of July 2020 that's
right you guys had a holiday this
weekend candidate Canada is Canada Day
was that's what Peter was referring to
Wednesday so this pathway so I had the
day off work and I was here at the
studio so right now the studio they've
got me in the corner boys because it's
like not facing the corner I've got
things that I'm working on setting up so
like I tried unpacking all the soldering
tools I found them and I threw them on a
table but they're not set up and I
realized that the tables that I have
from the old studio are not gonna work
in this space so I ordered a small
4-foot table to do all my soldering
stuff on so that's gonna that's gonna
really help so now I got to get rid of
the old crew table you know that big old
curved thing yep you remember cuz you
were there how like it's a pretty big
table right so it's a full floor yeah so
Peter I don't have the ability to mute
you today because I'm over here in the
in the studio okay just just know to to
mute yourself when when you're making
noise and stuff if you don't mind it's
like Zoom etiquette folks and we live in
this world of okay there's zoom meetings
happening all the time now so we need to
all learn our zoom etiquette and and
mute our mics when we need to I also
noticed that we have a mr. Owen from the
United Nations
those of you who are watching this on
demand you don't see that but we have
little tags under our pictures that show
our name and and marche man today is un
om so that's the picture is frozen but
it's just come back to lunch so there we
go
well I should greet everybody I've got
Doug up with the top left there I'm here
in the middle at the top and marsh man
aka you and I when do I need to call you
that now over on the right hey guys
Peter at the bottom left we got soul boo
in the middle and bp9 joining us as well
hey guys I missed being here last week
it was kind of weird not having a coffee
break and that's because I took my wife
and kids up to the cottage up north and
and just enjoyed some downtime so I had
no internet connectivity except if I
drove 25 minutes into town where they
have like public Wi-Fi at the local park
which is surrounded in caution tape
whatever your work either right no my
[ __ ] well I did have cellular service
but I don't have a data plan so I stay
off the internet when I'm up there if I
can so I needed that time away to be
honest Lou yeah Doug have you been doing
anything
technologically well yes I have three
things to tell you first of all they're
gonna have me working Sundays so I won't
be able to be here next week
unacceptable
indefinitely oh no secondly I went
Wireless oh you did you pull the soul
boo we're gonna call that pulling the
soul by now pulled us all boo and bought
some Bluetooth headphones beautiful
interesting story there my microphone
all of the microphones attached to this
computer got turned off through means
unknown running Windows 10 one day I
went there plug it in to do something
and the microphone didn't work the head
work with the microphone didn't work out
here's your problem baby it was an issue
with that corded headset that I was
using so I bought these as a diagnostic
thing yeah and turned out they didn't
work either so obviously it was the
computer Oh night did a Google search
for why my microphones not working in
low and behold there is microphone
setting in Windows 10 they will turn off
all your microphones oh isn't that help
and let me get one of the automatic
updates did it
sure busted oh yeah you you don't need
microphones and you want to use edge
sure yeah and thirdly I have a Dell d630
computer that I was running point Linux
on and even with that it was pretty slow
yeah so I doubled the memory from two
gigabytes one second Peter mute your
microphone please thanks man go ahead
done from two gigabytes to four
gigabytes and it's much faster loads
even faster than Windows 10 so you
simply upgraded the RAM yep that's good
man very good yep that's that's
sometimes the secret cuz if you I think
what happens is a lot of times like when
you're when you have that little amount
of RAM your computer's gonna have to
start swapping to the swap swap
partitions swapping yeah so your hard
drive is being used as temporary memory
in your hard drive is very slow in
comparison that's actually a pretty old
computer but raising the memory was a
fantastic change that's great man I
guess computer is your callsign Hank
called them computer here at the studio
because we say computer
think about can you use right yeah it
was funny because a few little while ago
I was watching cat 5 TV and you were
doing the upgrade on your Lenovo and you
kept saying computer and I kept
responding like uh Strappies love the
fact that we can call a computer but it
just doesn't work yeah I gotta remember
to do that with his new Bluetooth
headset harsh man I saw your shirt there
for a moment love that you got a hole in
it he's he's worn his category-five tech
TV t-shirt to the point where it has a
hole in it super fan right there guys
laptops with the wife I got ya I got her
unto a more powerful computer does that
mean a downgrade for you when you say
swapped or do you just mean you swapped
guy down really yeah it's a downgrade
for me but yeah I'll bring that
downstairs and put VM ware on it and and
run names on that instead of the big
monster oh yeah electricity oh cool oh
okay so you're gonna turn the old laptop
into a hypervisor
yeah how much RAM is in there right now
for gig but I have eight sitting outside
I can pop in there very good yeah
that's one thing with the hypervisors we
found a you don't want to get too close
to the edge because then all of a sudden
everything goes down hey I had that half
my hypervisor went down this weekend
because the power went out Saturday
morning about nine o'clock in the
morning it just flashed and so I had to
come into the studio because I still
haven't put batteries in that UPS but it
just reminded me because my whole
hypervisor went down so that took down
my piehole so there was no DNS
so I couldn't I couldn't remote into the
studio my computer was off everything
was down and so no need to get that UPS
battery really did a long time it has
but you know it's one of those stupid
things where I know that I have to I got
to replace the UPS battery because it's
not holding a charge but it's not cheap
but these are industrial 1500 volt amp
ups is like you can buy three consumer
UPS's for the cost of replacing the
batteries but it's got to be a battery
replacement so it's kind of brutal so it
just feels like sometimes and I've found
this through the move you guys I think
know this especially those on
Kickstarter that there have been a lot
of these little unexpected that cost
that cost a lot of money the cables to
get stuff from this room into the other
room have been like unbelievably
expensive my webcam right now is plugged
into a sixty dollar USB extension
because it's got to be able to reach the
server in the other room well that's
just so that I have USB in here so and
then as soon as I want to have zoom
interview like on the show live that
means I've got to run audio into the
other room too so that costs like a
hundred and fifty bucks for that one
probably so there viola future right
just feels like it's like I know it's it
it's not a money pit and it's like oh my
goodness I thought like oh yeah we're
gonna just be able to just get up and
running and up and going and now it's
like holy cow I'm just burning through
cash just to be able to do basic
connectivity so so that said I talked to
the contractor and I'm excited that he's
got a vision for this place and I
actually pulled that guy in here that I
talked about last time
he took a look around and he's looking
around and he's like what do you do and
I start talking about you know rap we do
raspberry pie and others with single
board computers and stuff and and we're
trying to get more into that and
soldering and stuff he's like oh man I'm
a big fan of like Arduino and all this
stuff and and and I just started talking
about my my thoughts about 3d printers
and you know that's kind of a cool tack
and he actually as a contractor he built
his own 3d printer like I don't mean I
don't mean he bought an SM assembly kit
with all the parts like he designed and
built his own 3d printed everything that
would mean very tight tolerances on the
on the part basically you know you don't
have a lot of room to mess around with
that it's got to be pretty precise yeah
that's what it seems like so is Zoe and
he starts talking about yeah well to
cover this the skylight we can put in
like a blind system where the blinds
open and close and then run a track and
plug that into an Arduino and then I'll
program it so that you just push a
button and it'll open or close and I
like this guy just kind of seemed like
that's a good match because like this is
gonna make some really interesting
behind the scenes if he starts doing
that kind of thing it's just why the
fans running in your next to you is the
air conditioner not up to keeping the
space cool when the really it wasn't but
that brings a point point B oh when I
came in to get the server back up and
running the AC was actually running for
the first time since we got this place
oh so it was like 32 degrees on
Wednesday when I was here see so that's
where I brought in the fan I'm confused
because when you moved into the space
you said it's wonderful to have a nice
managed perfectly managed 22 it's all
yeah but can I pass the world hasn't
been perfect
we managed oh okay so there's two things
here first thing is just like bill is
saying like they're in the same state as
everyone else there there are they open
or they close do they have full steam
you know it's like and they're trying to
make it and make everything work plus on
that same note like this is a massive
mall 120,000 square feet where there's
nobody working so you know do they do
they go do they fire up the ACS and
everybody's units running cool when
nobody is here like there's a restaurant
there's a restaurant in here that
doesn't have a patio so they can't be
open so do they see that restaurant like
it doesn't make any sense so so there's
that but then there's also but cuz I had
to move everything in all by myself and
kind of just throw everything in here
it's not really presentable like it's
I'm doing my best
but it's still I would be embarrassed to
have somebody come for a tour right now
because it's like boxes strewn
everywhere when I when I found my
soldering stuff I just kind of threw
everything on a table and it's just it's
a mess like I'm it's not it's not
perfect so I'm not at the point yet
where I want to call up the landlord and
say hey the AC is not working could you
come over to my unit and take a look you
know so I I was planning to spend this
weekend doing some cleaning and tidying
and getting things set up
I've got acoustic paneling that is
currently expanding on the floor so you
can't even walk in here so like there's
that kind of stuff so if it just wasn't
appropriate to ask somebody to come and
take it take a look so to find that they
got it working over the weekend was kind
of a pleasant surprise so Peter what are
you up to man anything how's your
antenna project going last time yeah but
you you back back more on more disasters
Peter come on
I don't wanna we got it working and that
day we had to do a giant took the arrow
down I went up in the land up when the
boys went away and I kept it to the top
of the tower and there was a crack once
they know where to go to everything all
four games I was off no no I better wear
em so thou lov'st and the road demands a
time on Friday so the healing cup right
ping come come home I'd ever done on
Monday hopefully and they deliver welder
they're on board a guy pretty good you
got David Greg down but I like what he's
got a triangle tower and they're places
to go at the top is a single diode with
a plate we go and one that I would like
correct
uh no viewed it have you got like a
young guy that you can send up the tower
to do this kind of meant to be climbing
towers dude like there comes a point
where you you got to get somebody to
just finish this project for you and
then you can just enjoy it
they keep on yeah I know
you know what your your life your safety
is worth so much more than the cost of
getting a tower a by quickly young do I
get after work and it seems to get back
to that actually to tracking matches a
moment and children Apple announced as
well the game's up going to the friend
of mine do a bit downing trees
everything they were all rail full and
very friendly though I'm not one around
here
when you have educated me on
food-related but Gigi no human bad kind
and killed of dead that could be another
week ago and my page will get out again
three days but they do to me like the
other a rule down yeah you'll have to
let us know next week Peter if you got
it up on Monday and things are working
okay but please please be careful okay
up a letter Peter and you could break
your leg literally 60 meters you know
you are to stop climbing things you have
to go and but when the leg and you said
about the ground and the HOH Union
that's where I know could go but they
don't sure so boo here's here's how I
think it needs to go down Peter needs to
make a list of the things that need
doing and he needs to hand that list to
some young guy to go do it because I'm
picturing now now that you say it I'm
picturing Peter at the bottom of the
table are trying to yell up at this guy
it's not gonna go well hold a megaphone
to your to your throat
that could have two meter radios or yeah
true enough
you need both hands climbing a tower
though so what have you been up to dude
I had the cold last week this is scary
time to have a cold dude yeah I had a
fever in the yeah yeah but when I am
with people then I eat some some for the
throat and coughing so man I'm glad you
feel better so you're not doing anything
with with tech these days taking a bit
of a bra enjoying myself and watching
Star Trek Voyager how nice yeah butch
chair the first two seasons and no first
three seasons and I just started there
the first two episodes of there I think
it's the season for 7:09 then comes
along and the kiss I just left she did
this and them yeah shorten been about
ten years he says he had to repair his
rig his radio
it must be an old time he read because
there was a table or something that he
had to replace
when they would ever be a value a bit
okay and I place them I mean because a
guy named I went from about booty much
rather than sixty walked in one go Wow a
job it does great on here a little
abandoned on zippered natural we did it
when we brought him but yeah lady the
well I am NOT a fan of the a frenzy to
create today things are bang on youth
very expensive to repair so what what
what he calls valves we call tubes here
in this take the glass it's maybe out
you kind of thing career vacuum to well
you're always Peter you're always
keeping busy with projects and I love
that yeah I like learn like I'm
constantly learning but I'm not at your
level with the electronics and stuff by
any stretch but I posted on Twitter this
this week because or maybe just
yesterday because I had a chat on the
names discord server with one of my
users about creating a box that would
connect to an M server over GPIO to a
Raspberry Pi and then based on the
response of the Tempur device which is
the temperature sensor the USB
temperature sensor if it got too hot it
would turn on 110 volt power outlet and
he'd have two fans plugged into that
outlet and so if the room got too hot
the fans would automatically turn on and
then if it came down to temperature it
would turn off the fans automatically so
like I love tinkering with that kind of
stuff yeah yeah
yeah you can easily enough make your own
temperature sensor I just have because
I've got the USB temper device it's just
so easy you just plug it yeah yeah yeah
they're so like oriented I love that in
the floor so he had that's ok so he runs
up the CPU he oh there are more
efficient ways to do this yeah yeah I've
got some I've got all that like the
thermistors and everything yeah I can
build those things and but I'm I I still
like the temper I still like the
convenience
Peter I gotta give vp9 a chance to talk
because we're running short on time here
what do you been up to do well two
things the first is I've taken baby baby
baby steps with my own time and bricked
it yeah yeah well I say bricked it but
I've taken what you have to do is you
have to unlock a programming bit so that
you can reprogram the pine type because
as it comes it comes locked with a
software bit that prevents you from from
programming it so I did that I followed
that process doesn't make a whole lot of
sense for a developer camp it's just the
way it came delivered so I loved it then
I tried to program it but it refused to
program the process of unlocking it
causes it to means that whatever was in
the memory gets a race that's part of a
process so now there's literally
literally nothing in the memory of it
anymore
it's waiting patiently for me to figure
out how to program it but have any idea
who episode did that discover the robot
floating in space it came out aboard and
the Bellomo was kidnapped and then in
order to build a new one
and the new robot came along reminded
you of a video you saw what yeah exactly
so the other thing remember Robbie when
I got all excited because on the plane
book Pro and the pine book the little SD
card which you can't see because it's
black on black but this the card you
just push in and and pop it out and it
it's a little spring-loaded thing and it
just lets you remove the SD card well I
did a marsh man and I had to cut to
reflash the Durazo the flamebook pro yes
so I did that yesterday but I messed up
a little bit because I used my I used my
fingernail to push the young the tiny
tiny little SD card so it would release
if denied but then my fingernail slipped
off you know what happened right oh
those things fly it's a very strong
spring on this so I warned you about
that it flew up to the other side of the
room I spit the next day our crawling
around in there I see a new segment
Americans over there coming along I did
eventually find it it took me an hour
nearly two hours to find it but I did
find a copy this copy break is just like
we're gonna caption this one the things
not to do I made the point about this
point I'm no Robbie you know you said
don't do that well you have to you have
to unlock that switch see me programmer
because mine hasn't arrived yet
yeah so you're teaching me what well
maybe not what not what not to do but
when you said yeah I'll be able to
follow your steps you don't have to
follow these steps it's just a little
scary right now because I literally get
no response out of it but I have all I
have to do is figure out how to program
it that's all he's raised your live wiki
yes
[Laughter]
okay maybe not dr. Graf's Cruden made
them better looking for to recruit I I
can't hear you Peter these screws you
can you can get a magnet or something
like that yeah I did
I took the point time apart and I did
got tiny tiny little screws in it which
you can't even see but you guys know it
was great I took apart the pine Book Pro
recently on the show do you remember
that what got KY is that I lost like
three screws and I couldn't find them
anywhere I was like what on earth I'm
looking around and turns out when I set
down my screwdriver which is a magnetic
screwdriver they went put and ago
clicked on to the screwdriver so they're
on the screwdriver in my hand well you
have a few screws left over and you have
a few sometimes you can't figure out
where they're going because you can't
see see so bill this is what drives me
nuts everything that you order these
days comes like this this is from
something that I assembled today these
are the leftover remnants let me didn't
assemble it correctly if you no no it
doesn't what it means is that there are
options so this is okay you want to do
it this way here's here's the screws to
use if you want to do it this way if you
want to do it this way or this way
there's no more different ways you can
assemble it so now do these useless
screws well at least you've got your
part at least you got
when it was I just got a package from
Amazon it was an empty envelope the
envelope had nothing through the USPS it
did but the problem was that the
envelope and I don't want to show it to
you cuz it's got all kinds of details on
yeah address label and stuff but you can
tell that the envelope was never sealed
properly at the at the Depot so it was
it was it was open so when it was inside
it and I know what was inside it but
what was inside it just fell out even at
the warehouse manual could I can I pull
to NASA five and that vertical and as if
the PDF folder didn't come with it I'm
going going on digital voice and the
absolutely impossible workout was like
that may be time for me to work out
which one day so speaking speaking of
instruction manuals are you proud of me
would be proud to watch a video yeah you
gotta be able to program the timer on
those things
in the first it was not apparent from
the remote control or the it had code
that you can enter impossible to change
the states you can set it to stop
playing and then you could not stop in
the power line you had the power led by
the product for more than four hours
then you could steal you remember crazy
well guys I've let this go on a little
bit longer than usual but just because
it's too much fun chatting with you but
I hope you have a wonderful week I will
see you Wednesday I'm eager to be here
doing the show a lot a lot still to set
up thank you thank you
next Sunday yeah so check will be here
again Sunday I want to hear that you've
got everything done but you've done it
successfully unsafely Peter and to the
rest of you Helen
everybody have a wonderful week and
we'll see you on the coffee break next
Sunday and on category 5 technology TV
this Wednesday see you then
