category-five technology TV hey we've
got our headphones on we've got five
different types of Bluetooth headphones
we're gonna be looking at here on the
show this week we're gonna just kind of
tell you hey what ones are our favorites
you want to stick around we'll find out
sorry
did you start the noise kay sorry oh
yeah turn that all oh you can hear me
now these are trusted only two
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 TV category
5 TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here cat 5 TV
slash TPM and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show everybody we've got
some great headphones that we're gonna
be reviewing in just a couple of minutes
time what's new my friends we got snow
here it's actually feeling like winter
yeah yeah today was bring your kid to
work day for great Niners and so my
daughter like 14 years old is at work
with me and she built her own computer
really yeah a core i5 she built it with
8 gigs of RAM and a 500 gig hard drive
she slaped Windows 10 in there and then
said I don't really want this dad but I
do want to be able to do FL studio' so
what can we do so we put Linux Mint 19.4
in there as a dual boot so now she's
turning on her computer
her new computer that she built at the
at the office and it's asking do you
want Linux Mint or do you want Windows
and she jumps into Windows 10 when she
wants to do music production she jumps
into Linux when she wants to do her
usual boot yeah so I like I'm so excited
about like my kids are getting to that
age where they're well they're at that
age where they're doing their own thing
they're showing their own talents and
it's like wow you can like my kid just
built her own computer
I'm excited my dodi glue anymore and she
also doesn't do that but and then she
like progressed to install FL Studio 20
she's like creating her own music she's
she created three new songs today that
bring your kid to work day on her new
computer that she just built
that's dual booted with Windows 10 and
Linux Mint and she's creating music in
FL Studio with some new plugins that
she's found and like all this kind of
stuff now is take your kid to work they
still the same as when I was a kid like
I had to go back and write a report
about what I did now it's in color like
did she supposed to do a report about
what she learns and all the kind of
stuff Oh wouldn't that be neat because
if that's the case to have her player
music be like yeah I went there
I built accuser and I made music so boom
yeah
mic drop yeah there you go kids a plus
all you accountant kids in yo face y'all
know I'd write we were talking about
that with my son this morning it's like
when's take your kid to work day I'm
like well it's grade 9 but I don't know
I think it's like early November how
old's own he's in grade 8 he'll be 13 my
cake yeah yes he's just a little younger
than Talent yeah yeah so being a grade 8
he's looking forward to it and we were
talking about it this morning going well
damn what about what would you do if I
went to work with you I'm like we'd work
on contracts yeah you're like you're in
like politics and like Union Oh
it reminds me of when I did don't show
him
take your kid to work day and my dad
worked at a factory so literally you
know the mind-numbing witness training
that you have at the beginning of any
job yes was that that we that was that
day Wow you weren't allowed to go into
the actual factory until you had done
all this training yeah I mean it's legit
but it was just like this is your
introduction to the workforce six hours
of this see I'm so fortunate that at
least I have the flexibility at my job
to be able to say okay let's make this
fun for her today and we like I did my
best to do some fun activities and build
your own computer and Bill you know like
what do you want it to do yeah yeah and
and we got a doggie bag like that from a
core i5 without gigs and 500 gig hard
drive there's this like flat-screen
widescreen monitor like this sitting on
the on the e-waste pile so I'm like I
wonder what's up with that
and so we plug that in and and of course
dad here Robbie is is like the guy who's
like been over the if you've been
following the show you know over the
past couple of years I've been working
on learning how to repair micro
electronics and doing some soldering and
stuff like that so here's this nice BenQ
monitor sitting on the e-waste pile that
somebody just brought in an itsy waste
so they want to get rid of it took it
apart took the bezel off and pulled the
monitor out pulled out the power supply
because of course the power supply is
good noise a problem right yeah three
capacitors burnt out
that's it two of them are 1000
microfarad 10 volt capacitors like
everybody who is interested in
electronics has a thousand micro farad
capacitors sitting in there in their
toolbox like I have I have a an
assortment of them and then there's one
that's a 25 volt is 680 micro farad
capacitor those three capacitors were
burned out
remember Jeff when I did the the gigabit
switch yes yeah okay that switch had
1000 microfarad right okay in volt
capacitors yeah so I had to buy in bulk
ooh like a bag for 12 bucks and I got a
whole bunch of them so I already have a
whole bunch of them left over cuz I
repaired that proved that hey just a
couple of soldering joints and boom I
can fix this this device so I have those
capacitors great the extra capacitor the
680 micro farad 12 bucks so now she's
got a brand new wicked sized monitor yes
yeah from the e-waste pile so not only
have I given my daughter now this wicked
BenQ monitor flatscreen it still has the
it actually still has the plastic wrap
on it like it's that new like the person
didn't even yeah if the power supply was
burned out so like somebody would plug
it in and it doesn't work so like what
do you do you throw it in the e-waste
you buy a new one what's great is that
you've now taken that out of the
landfill exactly yeah
so now we of course do e waste so it's
responsible recycling so we dissect
those devices and we and we recycle the
components but when you look at
something like that and it's like okay
this is gonna cost me $12 to fix it yeah
that to make it work that's not and put
this on the desk for my kid with an i5
computer from the e-waste pile but she
has now built herself like that's a good
feeling as a dad to be able to pull that
together so not everybody has that like
that scenario to to be able to do that
for bring your kid to work day yeah but
I think that was cool
now you're gonna have a whole bunch of
kids you've got kids all across the
globe watching this episode going if
you're an accountant I'm sorry it's
really cool we all need you
we all need you but you know it's fun
numbers yeah
oK we've got ten hours here's a
calculator kid have fun you have to say
I mean I love this conversation I feel
like I'm on like a sports a commentary
show like it's kind of cold in here just
in general but these actually are what
is that warming laughs I like it we have
five sets of Bluetooth headphones i mean
christmas is coming folks you've all got
people on your list that you need to buy
it for including yourself but hey we're
gonna be taking a look at each of these
five headphones are the hardest thing to
review so hey we're just gonna try them
out and see which ones we like the most
exactly so if you trust us hey this is
going to be a great review for you so
stick around back this is category five
technology TV now we have five sets of
bluetooth headphones because we reviewed
a couple in it they keep sending us more
and so it's like okay well how do you
review bluetooth headphones we've tried
the dummy head and it's like okay well
YouTube just erupts and says well that
sounds terrible and it's like okay well
you're listening to it on your laptop
speakers so it's not really a realistic
replication so really when it comes down
to headphones the only way that we can
express to you whether they're good or
not is our own opinion exactly it's like
okay does Sasha think those ones sound
great well what does Robby think and
what does Geoff think let's pass these
around we've got five sets of headphones
we're gonna be taking a look what do we
have we have the amazing mix coder HD
nine Oh ones and these ones are well
they are roughly around like thirty
bucks
I'm like we're looking at kind of
entry-level price stuff we also in that
price market we
have the power locusts headphone so
we've got these ones that you have up he
threes the ones that I have on here
these now they've learned from their
mistakes with the serialization so the
product number of this one is like this
big long code no worries we have links
for you at cap 5 DB / headphones but
we've reviewed these ones on the show as
well we're going to talk about that
minor the blue t OT monitor that's right
and then we also just kind of stepping
things up because I want to answer the
question well is it really worth
spending more we also have another pair
of headphones here and these are from
Edifier and Edifier we've actually
reviewed their speakers they make an
incredible speakers fabulous speakers so
I really wanted to feel like what are
their headphones like and and I'm
excited about this I want to I want to
give these ones a try because I can feel
them in my hand they have a half to them
these are the W eight six zero and B's
oh you're right they do they really do
like feel that versus that total total
difference yeah like easily double the
weight okay here sash not that that's it
like hey yeah okay well that's worth the
extra price
no but weighs more to put in because I
mean if you have to be wearing
headphones for say six seven hours yeah
the weight does that well but we're
gonna be Wayne ah see how I did that
we're gonna be weighing the factors that
we as listeners feel are important the
sound quality the comfort the aesthetics
things like that so let's give these a
try you ready alright now we all on our
personal phones have our favorite music
our personal favorite music loaded up
we're going to sync the Bluetooth
headphones to our phones and give these
a try so that we can give you an honest
impression as to which one of these five
is perhaps our favorite and which one
comes in second place and why well let's
give this a go okay fire it up folks
okay
[Music]
[Applause]
play with the noise-canceling without
the music on no I don't know what that
is anc
no i didn't turn that on okay do it I'll
be the best so I put that on yeah so
we're talking flip the toggle switch and
hear what that right does it just fall
away like okay that alone number five
like that is our number one one is the
best one is the best that's the number
one simply that alone what I can do try
right okay seriously and there's I
haven't even paired it yet there's a
button there's a switch here that says
ANC what does that stand for I'm gonna
maybe I don't know but like seriously it
mutes the war awesome noise cancellation
like okay so we're talking while you
flip that toggle squared is the sound of
the family here are the difference like
a sound of the fan go Sasha not only
that like the reverberation within the
voices like it changes everything good
okay simply from like think of a kid
with autism who's in a class puts on the
headphones to deal with audio that
feature right there being able to make
the difference between hearing the
teacher and then turning it off and on
mind-blowing
that's really so teachers if you see
your autistic child in the class go like
this okay now you understand noise
cancellation an active noise can talk to
the kids okay okay do your review yeah
Wow okay thank you
my active noise-cancelling okay that is
really cool goodness
okay can I hear this yeah okay I'm gonna
take out my earbuds okay here we go
oh okay
are you kidding me is this seriously
what you're playing yes no yes can I say
it you can't sing it okay at least fast
forward to Figueroa you're somewhere
right here is that right spot
you can't even hello wah I can't even
hear my own freakin voice right
what okay now okay I didn't even touch
volume control I got away with that
hello hello wow that's displacing right
we're okay hold on turn for a second I
want to check something okay okay have
you gone back like forward backwards no
no not up and down forward backwards
well that rewind it it okay yeah I like
the touch yeah yeah but are you talking
to a and see what sorry I have anal
noise cancellation were you totally an
agency even to hear the the difference
in the song right okay talk to me okay
so just sounds like like like p OD or
something it is this p OD oh did it go
to p OD it went to p OD okay yeah
is it B OD I've wanted to switch from
Bohemian Rhapsody well because I I
flipped my own right cuz you felt them
back again put it back on Queen is that
p OD no no it's it's a it's Bohemian
Rhapsody now Joey you put on PID okay do
I hear it okay
now flip the NC no flip okay Nancy's on
yeah okay but do you hear the way that's
sorry what no I can't hear you
but when I turn that off no but the
different I can hear yeah but the
difference in the song even the song
changes I can't like I can't make out
your words but I can hear you but it
when I turn on and see I cannot hear
anything in the room I can't even hear
my own voice that is trippy that's
really weird that is so weird
walk around the house Becca can you hear
me going seriously seriously I couldn't
hear my own voice when I turn on the NC
can you hear me right now talk to me
talk okay
oh I don't know I'd like to hear me but
turn off the antsy switch it's just a
digital switch and then and talk talk
talk talk so then right just do that is
that weird yeah what I've never I've
never tried an C that's wild
we have just tested all five sets of
headphones yeah I gotta be honest our
minds are kinda blown right now
well you had yours pretty loud yes okay
so where do we start let's start with
something that we've already seen here
on the show these are the power locusts
now I joked about how they've improved
their naming mechanisms but these are
these you ready for this PwC P ITT UK
bluetooth 4.2 + edr headphones that's
the pork put UK yeah we've we saw these
on episode number 566 of category 5
technology TV yeah and what I like about
these is that it has an SD card reader
yes okay now if I recall correctly from
that episode it was only like two or
three file formats that it actually
played you know what I don't I don't
care no fair enough but if somebody has
a plethora of file formats with their
music they need to be aware of that you
may have to do some okay so with the SD
card reader yes SD card reader yeah okay
so remember these are bluetooth
headphones so they connect to your phone
and they'll play whatever you're playing
yeah no matter what format it is if your
phone will play it it will play the SD
card reader I just simply loaded my mp3s
on it so and when I say I don't care
it's like I'm just gonna put mp3s on it
write it simple
it up with my favorite mp3s and then I
can use these without having to have my
phone in my pocket right I don't need
bluetooth I can use just the mp3 card
yeah okay
so how did these rank for you guys
the p3s yeah so let's say okay so we're
ranking based on our perceived sound
quality the sound quality of these blue
geo headphones so Sasha what do you
think sound eight out of ten so eight is
pretty high so those look great
I check these sound really good yeah
yeah Jeff what do you think so I didn't
realize we're giving number scheme I
actually have like written comments oh
so sorry we're talking perceive sound
quality so I would give this one a six
yeah yeah and the reason why I found
that there was a little bit of a muddy
bass to it okay just when you get some
of those really deep like I had two
different songs that is flipping back
and forth on one of them was four p OD
very basic song called boom the other
one was Bohemian Rhapsody from Queen
knee and so two very different styles of
music and I wanted hear the difference
between the two and I found with a very
basis aw it was quite muddy mm-hm and so
for that reason I was like yeah not a
huge fan all right six for me as well
comfort wise these are pretty
comfortable at about a six out of ten
okay what do you think yeah ah comfort I
gave him a nine but they were relying on
me see you mean slide on my head yeah
you you thought these were really quite
comfortable yes yeah yes good my only
complaint the hard plastic top I found
if it wasn't sitting perfectly where the
crown like there's not a lot of padding
here is what is yakking about if
you hit that like pointy crown on your
head there's always like that curve
party no but there's always that current
like if it's not sitting on kind of that
like the Shelf of that of the skull it
doesn't feel I find I do find them
pretty comfortable but I'm not quite as
as willing to give a high number I'm
gonna say so yes yeah yeah I had seven
because the ear pieces were quite common
the looks of the headphones I give it a
out of ten I think they look pretty good
but they're a little bit far out from
the head what do you think I really
liked mine yeah okay that's good yeah
oddly enough I didn't know how to score
this one because I feel like they tried
to go cool yeah and it was kind of like
a really bad Tron effect it's not bad at
all dude pretty good but it's kind of
plasticky I'm just the kind of reviewer
I'm very reluctant to give high scores
because I think that the next best thing
is going to be higher so when I say six
I'm like that is really quite good
it's not like average it's above average
I think it's probably gives out of seven
okay they're not bad all right fair
enough they're not great okay the power
locus PW CPI TT UK I have to say I love
this the SD card feature of it so I have
to add that to my review they are quite
comfortable and they sound good I will
say and this could be just the weirdest
thing for me is anyone that has the L
and the R that helps you that's a really
big deal I gotta say that is that's fair
enough because you look at something
like this and it's like okay well which
one is left which one's right yeah and
automatically I get confused these games
are easy and and when she says that
folks I mean come on you can't mistake
that you can see that that's an R that's
an L it's printed right on the like it
that's huge and I mean you can that's
fair enough I will say the one thing
about the design of that I was not a fan
of mmm is the buttons I really what I'm
wearing them it was difficult to
differentiate because I have kind of
meaty fingers you're gonna get used to
that though nobody fair I get that but
still it's not protruded enough to
really define like if you're jogging or
something it's like all the track all
right rap I turned it off fair enough
fair enough in that maybe you're not
gonna sense the tactile nature yes okay
that reason I don't have a problem with
these to be honest Jeff you got like a
little skinny type or fing thank you
I've got pretty man beef
so okay for simply before that reason
alone that's why I rated these a five
they all get worst because the buttons
your score so we have five sets of
headphones my score is I'm putting these
at the fourth place okay and I do that
reluctantly because I do really love
these power loka's headphones so I say
that let's just say none of these
headphones are losers this week oh no
they're all really good yeah I really
like those I want to be clear though
when I say that these are in my fourth
place
I love these headphones I really really
do they're comfortable they work great
and they sound great and I love that SD
card feature I absolutely do I love that
I can put like a load of mp3s on there
and just play it without having to use
my phone yes without having to drain my
battery which is nice yeah so when I say
these are my fourth out of five that
sounds low so it makes it sound like hey
these ones suck no they don't these are
really really great so actually for like
all of these things for the price point
these are all phenomenal for what you
can get you got a second five says that
they use them in their gym three times a
week and love them fantastic these are
twenty seven bucks okay let's move on
let's move on to the mix coder HD 901 s
now these are like where did these come
from these are only 24 bucks okay okay
so these are like the cheapest ones that
we have they do not fold up like the oh
they do oh I didn't realize not like
that okay no but they do it those were
actually the most comfortable on my head
Wow they they did feel you know what
okay I did notice very comfortable I
will say though if you have big ears
you're not gonna like them I did I do
you have big ears like were you like I
don't have big ears play well I have
very good at least I think I have
proportional shaped ears and if somebody
has very round ears because of the
narrow nature of those they're gonna
squish the ears I don't know they feel
really quite comfortable and I like that
they're on an angle they are they're not
like cuz my ears are not straight up and
down like some headphones are yes these
headphones take into
account that my ears are on a bit of an
angle yep so you see that when I put
that on see that folks I do it like half
a centimeter extra would make all the
difference oh it was perfect yeah these
feel pretty good tomato actually yeah I
do like that they have an SD card reader
as well so understand when I say these
have an SD card reader I don't have to
have a phone handy in order to listen to
these I can load up an mp3 card like
just Jack full of mp3 files an SD card
and just push play and do my jogging and
do my workout and not have to worry
about it because I do workouts all the
time as you can tell I don't know buddy
if I did then that would probably be a
really nice thing these ones have a bit
more padding not for me I found the
sound quality a little bit thin like not
a whole lot of low-end but they did
sound really good mm-hmm see what just a
little bit on the thin side that's funny
and I I noticed that the mid rate
mid-range was a bit lost yeah when you
have a predominant low end mm-hmm when
you have a very equally mixed song it's
a good mix but as soon as you get a
predominant bottom end middle completely
disappears isn't that interesting
yeah so it kind of changes the
headphones yeah fit wise well I should
ask how did you feel about the sound
quality I should say for the record that
you guys speak in a different language
when it comes to sound and that's okay
that's okay and this is part of it right
were three different people
Jeff is from a radio background I'm like
a just an audio nerd and Sasha you're
every single one of a PSW yeah exactly
the same to me every single you love
music yes did this sound good though yes
okay these were actually my top pick
these are my absolute favorite
I mostly like comfort comfort is the
thing they they feel really good and
they're only 24 bucks appeared on my
head like I felt like I wasn't wearing
well really yeah you know what am i yeah
I can see that I would agree with that I
mean not that they disappeared I'm a
head but they were by far the most
comfortable the first thing as soon as I
put them on the first thing I was like
I'm not even turn these on yet very
comfortable
yeah Wow yeah I put nice fit it was a
good fit eight and eight and a half for
me out of comfort and as far as the
aesthetics and the look of it
these ones sit a little closer to my
head some of these headphones kind of
like they feel like they're floating out
here yeah so to me that aesthetic is not
very attractive
these ones feel like like when I look at
them I don't know what you folks think
but I think that these look really good
so I'd say nine oddly enough I how do
they feel really yeah so for you
aesthetically these ones didn't look as
good to you to me they were just it
really was nothing look great on Sasha
too like they like just I think you have
ever very uniform like there's you don't
see hinges you don't see anything about
them that is like ooh that's a cool
feature there's a little bit of that
like textured like spinning bevel on the
side but other than that they're just
black plastic that's kind of matted oh
come on I like a little bit of flair
okay yeah that's fair enough okay so you
so much Rob so we got to put some bows
on it for Jeff oh you sound wise I found
them a little bit thin but they were
comfortable as heck yeah they have
really good sound don't get me wrong
when I say they're a bit thin they just
had a little bit of a drop off on the
low end maybe a little bit of a cueing
could do that like improve that I put
this at three on my list okay four okay
number one these are your okay so she's
taking these ones home folks that's how
it works around here Kathy that's a
number one for you isn't the same as
number one for Robbie okay let's let's
jump into another set of the these guys
the what are these ones freeze freeze
because they learned from their mistakes
when it comes to the hit the naming and
they call these ones the p3s I do like
the aesthetics of these ones yes they
look pretty they were my favorite
aesthetically
there's a bit of a color flare not too
definitely not in your face perfectly
but also the there was the shine to it
that I really appreciated these are only
28 bucks folks oddly they were they were
not my favorite I like the buttons as
well I guess everything feels really
good and because it was the buttons are
so far parkas they're all on that circle
these are tactile button it was very
nice to work with very so for me I found
that there wasn't a lot of bass in here
it kind of felt like listening to like
that phone sound like a telephone yes
you know what I mean like that thin kind
of sound now for 28 bucks that is
reasonable but considering the mix
coders we're only 24 right right please
once felt a bit thin yet it was because
of the bass yeah that I think those
would be my last choice okay but they're
not fair enough okay these were my last
choice but before we get to that the
comfort wise I felt that they were very
very round right here so it felt like I
was taking this and putting it on my ear
yeah and and that is exactly what it
looks like right so do you guys agree
with that it sounds like you do for the
fact that I love the other power Lukas
so much okay and I think because I tried
those first and then I was comparing
against I disliked those right but I
really liked the other one
see and it's unfortunate because I like
the looks of these yeah I really like
the looks of these yeah they're not
again these are not bad headphones they
are my last pick tonight out of these
five that we're looking at these are not
bad no but I feel like maybe they're a
little bit junior sized I would agree
with that they don't feel right on my
head I might think that these would work
really really well for my kids but I
don't like the feel of it yeah it just
feels like it's sitting on top of my ear
rather than cupping over my ear yes and
I did find these have the same issue as
the other power locusts in the act that
the crown of the head it starts to
fatigue a bit oh yeah that's what I fit
both of them I've done the same thing a
little bit more
but it feels it feels okay to me Jeff
but it's the sound and the and the and
the feel of it but okay yeah I'm just
gonna set these inside and just say you
know what this was my fifth choice yeah
how about you Beth Beth they were three
but I'm underage think I'm questioning
that now okay I think because they were
the first one I reviewed by the time I
got through the others I was like oh
there was a winner but now that as we're
talking about yeah you know what I think
I would probably put them at five okay
and I think I'd move the other two up
all right so let's set these aside all
right that's the power locus p3z
all right so now we've got the these are
the blue Tio's and I really like these
and you notice there's some wear and
tear here yeah that means you really
love them Wow yeah I've been using these
ones personally oh good that's why
they're wet so these blue Tio's we
reviewed on episode number 585 category
five technology TV and I've been using
them day in day out since then and you
know my personal experience is the
batteries last for freaking ever like
they are fantastic they do get a little
bit annoying kind of like any Bluetooth
headphones where you know eventually
they start saying battery low when
they're at like 30% and it's like okay I
know I'm gonna get another 12 hours out
of this yeah so just leave me alone
right like there should be a mute button
they do that a lot but hey I mean that
is what it is and if you put it on your
charger it's not gonna but you get a lot
of battery life out of it they sound
good I really like the comfort of these
I've enjoyed using them good for me they
do sound a little bit on the tinny side
compared to say like the power locusts
headphones but they feel really good on
my head it's funny that you call it
tinny
well I'm like not like a little bit of a
taper off at the base line yeah I what
I'm listening to it the best way I could
describe it is uncompressed I feel like
the rest of them had like a built-in
compression what I actually appreciated
about these is I feel more natural they
felt more natural like so because I was
flipping between the two songs yeah when
I had p OD playing and like there was
the thump and bass and everything it was
good I felt like there was a lot of
range going on
you know I flipped a queen one of the
things I noticed is I picked up that
kind of old-school hiss you get from
recordings but isn't that interesting
yeah whereas none of the others you you
got it I was like oh that's interesting
so I think just that I guess I call it
lack of compression you picked up that
broader range in some of those subtle
nuances within the music that really
gave an authentic feel to the music hmm
and for me that was like who these are
these are gonna be my number one really
really appreciating your reviews like I
want you to review all my stuff yeah
like just like come on over and just
like eight go through my fridge okay
yeah for me yeah I can see that now that
you mention it and I do appreciate that
very very much I mean I'm an old soul
and I love like we were talking before
the show about like LPS and yes and
record players and things and that and I
feel like if you had a recording if you
know say record players I think you
would pick up that that little like with
the blue T oh yeah I think it would be
these are not expensive like these are
not 39 bucks what I saw it I was like
okay yeah bucks seriously that's great
yeah I I think I think those are right
near the top okay and I do love these I
have to say I have been using these and
I love them comfort wise again I'm very
conservative with my reviews and and I
am NOT though you look at my Amazon
reviews and if you find a five out of
five you know it is incredible like it's
like four out of five if I love it right
so I say seven my as seven as far as
comfort goes
I gave them an e yeah they are really
really cozy they got good cushioning
they do they feel really good yeah and
what I also like that they have a
slightly retro feel to them oh yeah like
yeah you have the metal pieces you've
got the cable that you can see all of
these others have the exact you know of
them have the exact same styles like the
fold up and the plastic and the form
right these I they do cover coming
multiple colors I don't know if that is
one
them you can go to cap five TV slash
headphones to find out though there are
several colors there like a whole
spectrum yeah these ones yeah you're
right they don't fold up I'm not even
gonna try cuz I will just break this
link just bend it and break it my rank
as far as my favorites go this one fell
in number two just say for me yeah yep
it was it was definitely number two so
it's gonna be a fight to the death I put
them in number three number three yeah
so we all agree that the blue Tio's are
for the the lower-cost bluetooth
headphones are probably like some of the
best yeah I would say they're pretty
good price point compared ibly yeah
those would be a number one these are
all approximately the same price and
these are really really good yes yeah
yeah III would agree with that if you're
doing budget shopping for Christmas and
you're like oh well I got thirty-eight
dollars to spend
mhm that's your gift yeah yeah yeah I'd
have to say I agree with that
yep these these are really quite nice
yep I agree but then stepping it up yes
and really stepping up the price point
with the Edifier 's Edda fires we know
are really good quality product but they
have great product I feel like Jeff
you're probably leaving the same
direction as me yes and that is you stay
there while I take those at the door
yeah these are my number one from what
we experienced today okay first of all
again I'm feeling that they're a little
bit thin but the sound quality is
exceptional with these and after I had
already written all my notes
you showed us about the active touring
kit noise cancellation feature and as
soon as I activated that now I'm like
wow he and more so I'm like impressed
with these yeah they're really good
first of all comfort wise I don't think
I've ever put on a pair of headphones
that made me feel so blissful right
that's a great way of describing it oh
my goodness
blissful seriously I use an exclamation
mark I'm like dad the blue do is yeah
they feel great for hours like any of
these they'll feel great for hours on
end
maybe not quite the P threes but
certainly the more comfortable ones
definitely the mixed coders will feel
good for four hours on end yeah these
ones I feel like that they feel like I'm
just putting air on my head yes they
just they're so nothing they're so good
the padding is so superb yeah it just
feels so it's like it's like memory foam
yeah on my head I will say that I don't
like that these are part of the mix
because I feel like they're in a
different class they kind of are and
that's why I say hey from these let's
say the blue Tio's are the best oh and
then let's say okay well what is it you
know what is a hundred and twenty dollar
set of headphones like yeah and then
you're like well these are really quite
nice yeah if if money is not the factor
when it comes to what you're looking for
you can't compare well you can but you
can't compare the Edifier to the blue
Tio's sure I mean for the price point
Moodie o--'s are the way to go yes but
if you have you know 150 bucks to blow
and like these are amazing and can I say
right now cat5 dot TV slash headphones
and I say this in 2019 November till
Christmas there's a $20 coupon so you'll
get these for a hundred bucks
okay and I don't say this is not
late-night like but it's legit and
that's an amazon coupon it has nothing
to do with us I'm just telling you that
hey it is a deal yep you have the left
and right obvious on the inside yes they
do what I liked about those is they did
turn just like none of these did they
turned these did they adjust to the
shape of your head a little more yeah
they've got that like in-and-out
turn yeah so for me comfort wise did did
anyone else give this a 10 but yeah I
give it a 10 a 10
yeah yes but I had what well I gave it
ten but I had a hard time because I did
I felt bad giving it a test you are
emotionally attached to the are you
kidding me
okay guys you gotta try these on
yeah I have I'm honestly never like
we've worked in radio and TV for a long
time they feel amazing I've never put on
a pair of headphones that make me feel
so like wow yeah like that feels so good
and you actually all three of us we're
all wearing glasses those I did not
notice that I was wearing glasses
yeah esthetics wise these ones also
stick out a little bit but I still feel
like they look pretty good
so I given eight okay is that fair
mm-hmm I feel like if you give it a nine
then we know you at least you love it
right now you're just really in like
with it well I just compare that to to
the mix coders yeah that's the mix
coders to me feel like like if I look at
these aesthetically so if I was like
walking down the street wearing these
versus the mix coders profile mix coders
look nicer yeah that's okay so but if
I'm looking for like the comfort and
sound quality yeah these Atta fires are
amazing yeah you cares I like that that
is night and day yeah putting the two of
those on the touch controls are pretty
neat you know so I was so involved of
rub and then like fast-forward is just
kind of like flick your finger across
this and now what are no buttons what I
didn't like is oh that's just that's it
okay so if you're gonna say okay this is
this flappy thing is just so that you
know you know oh okay this is a new
purchase so this is just a sticker to
show you hey this is how it works but as
soon as you've bought it I thought that
was real a sure there you okay no that's
totally awesome so now I know how this
works I don't need that right now I know
that's up volume is down better that's
45 that's right okay so just keep that
in mind I really like those touch
controls those are pretty cool and as I
mentioned the the
ANSI Oh active noise cancellation is
that Steinem see was mind-blowing
I've had noise-canceling headphones
before with the toggle switch I remember
having American radio we're going back
20 years but I've had headphones with
noise canceling none of them have
performed the same as those that was
spot-on perfect beautiful yeah it was
great now as far as sound quality I had
high expectation because Edifier makes
great speakers yes the headphones did
not disappoint
they have yeah I agree with there was
very clear top end there was no
overbearing wavelengths or sound
fluctuations it was an excellent mix on
all levels and I flipped between like I
said peyote and Queen yeah to get to
dari very good size yeah very good and
they were spot-on there was nothing that
I was like that's off it was perfect
very very well calibrated these are my
number one as well yeah mine too
anybody else well yes where do these
fall on your list well they're in a
different list but they're number one on
the different list the list of one so i
from one to five with these five they're
tied for first
what is the second tie these ones oh the
mix coders yes yeah okay these I like
those ones for me better yeah I legit
we're the person buying the headphones
for myself yes because I can't tell the
difference between the noise the sound
buy these they don't it wouldn't make a
difference to me okay so we need to
touch on that because okay so Sasha is
saying the $24.00 ones to her are the
equivalent of the hundred and twenty
dollar one yes my ears aren't like
trained like your ears right so so what
is it that you love about these these
ones are really comfortable yeah like I
feel like when I put them on like they
just they adjust well they feel good
they're thick they fit right over my
ears perfectly yeah I just really really
like these ones
cool yeah so if you're you know if
you're shopping around you know think
about what you've heard here today yeah
I think that if anything we've been
unbiased and we've shared what our
favorites are and what our key points
are with these particular headphones I
think that's a very interesting thing
that you know the the two gents on the
set here are both going for these a
defiers we're gonna fight to the death
after the show for who gets to bring
them home I think it's gonna be me but
you've got these ashes really keen on
the mix coders and that's really
interesting because they're a really
separate price point yeah very separate
price point from the very low end at $24
to the higher end at 120 dollars or $100
if I use the coupon but what a
difference that is right now I the
interesting thing is obviously we're
doing this review on visual and
performance I think we probably could
take this up a notch to really key in on
some major differences for instance the
battery length yeah battery length I
think could be a deciding factor between
if I won with the Edifier versus the
blue Tio's because if that like same
battery that's where I'm going what if
it's a difference yeah I may not to be
honest yep if I may any of these devices
like these days here in 2019 they all
last yeah the lecture realistically
you're not gonna they last longer then
you can use them in a day all agree I
agree but I like that there's like I
like being able to put them down at the
end of the day know that I can come back
to them tomorrow and not having by
halfway through the day if I get two
full days out of device it's great the
other thing is if I'm taking these to
the gym yeah I'd like to know how those
because they are more cushiony are they
more likely to move around if I'm
running on the treadmill which I do not
run by the way versus the blue Tio's
yeah you know so these ones maybe the
best bet that way they really
potentially yes but I mean if I was just
sitting around doing audio production
there's nothing like yeah
hands down that's where I'm going okay
so maybe that's it maybe it's like okay
if you are the active sort Sascha mix
coders right I feel snug they they
really do yeah I feel great and you
wouldn't if you about bringing these
anyway oh sure like you wouldn't for 24
bucks exactly and if you're the studio
file like Jeff or I then maybe it's
we're going to more tour the edifice
yeah because we want that long to sit
down at the laptop with the Bluetooth
connected and being producing something
for hours no that's different I feel
like we should have also I should have
brought in my house of Marley's I love
oh I have some of those headphones like
I yeah there's not too many things that
I would give up before my house of
Marley's yeah that's a backward to me
that's I don't know to me that's
nostalgic house of Marley's were like my
first bluetooth headphones they're
fantastic
I still use them I love them mine broke
yeah that's right they do yeah yeah yeah
so I would love to put those up against
the house of Marley's because the House
of Marley has spot-on sound and you can
wear them for days yeah exactly yeah
I'll of course I still use them years
later it's so good yeah so so I mean
you've learned a lot here today if
anything I think what we've established
here and you to tell me if this is wrong
so if you're looking on the low end I
think the clear risers low in price
yes price-wise I think the clear winners
are the mix coders as far as comfort and
sound quality and yeah the blue Tio's as
far as like overall like like for the
studio file yeah so the the active
person the studio file yes on that price
point absolutely the studio file however
who wants to take it a step further
I think the Edit fires are the clear
choice is that a good assessment okay
you know what's interesting yeah same
brand and they got left out and and I
say that however I must say
that these guns yeah if these didn't
exist those would be my favorite but the
thing is the microSD they got left and
it's funny how but little fear not left
out though Jeff remember I said it at
the top I know all of these are
fantastic I'm gonna kind of leave these
ones out because they are not as
comfortable as any of the other ones
that we have here these are these guys
from like if Jack gets these I think I
should get both of these because it's
still I have to say though from Pera
locus these are fantastic oh they're so
like these are right on the threshold of
being like oh they are awesome
okay so let's be clear about that yeah
those ones kind of fall a little bit
behind the P threes
these guys they're up there now which
one was the newer model the P threes
interesting yes huh not to say that like
like these are still active like these
are still being produced right you can
still get these on Amazon sure all of
these headphones are available cap five
dot TV slash headphones so just buy them
all and then go ahead and do your own
compare and contrast these ones these
ones are at my house so we'll see you
later
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and we're gonna head
straight over to the newsroom perfect if
we might if you are ready for a session
all right here's what's coming up in the
category five TV newsroom police
Scotland has unveiled a new aerial drone
system to assist them in searches for
missing and vulnerable people after
initially denying it the Nuclear Power
Corporation of India has now confirmed
that their network of nuclear power
plants has been hacked admit Stan
already rocky ship following their
response to US sanctions in Venezuela
Adobe continues to falter in the eyes of
users making a security blunder that
exposed around 7.5 million user records
to the public and an interesting and
unexpected flaw and how smart devices
work has turned up as five months after
returning a rental car the customer
discovered that he can still track the
vehicle lock and unlock it and even
start and stop its engine stick around
the full details are coming up later in
the show this is the category 5 TV
newsroom covering the week's top
Linux bias Sascha Rickman in here the
top stories are following this key
police Scotland has unveiled a new
aerial drone system to assist them in
searches for missing and vulnerable
people the remotely piloted aircraft
system our pass can see things we can't
to try to work out where people are it
uses advanced cameras in neural computer
networks to spot someone it's looking
for from a speck up to 150 meters away
it's recognition software is compact
enough to be run on a phone with the
technology learning as it goes
Nicholas white of police Scotland's air
support unit says quote the drone itself
has very special sensors on it there's a
very highly powered optical camera which
allows us to see things quite clearly
from a good height also there's a
thermal imaging sensor which detects
heat end quote
he also reminds us the provides the
public that this technology is not for
invading privacy or spying quote we're
there to find people people who need our
help or people who are lost
end quote drones are becoming a common
sight outwardly
this one looks no different from others
apart from a flashing blue light but the
data this drone gathers is processed in
real time the software can discern an
animal person or vehicle from just a
handful of pixels in a huge moving color
image how because they taught it to
Professor professor Carl Shaw ski Dean
of the School of Computing engineering
and physical sciences at UW s said it
could spot someone from up to 150 meters
away he said quote it does that by being
shown images multiple images time after
time until it recognizes what the
objects are from pretty much any
orientation
end quote the term artificial
intelligence might conjure up images of
terminator like thinking robots but in
this case it means a machine that can
learn the team taught it using hundreds
of hours of footage of police officers
in different clothing positions and
situations and there's another
breakthrough professor Chomsky said
quote it doesn't require sophisticated
supercomputing it really is quite a
low-cost approach to this it just simply
uses a mobile phone end quote
a search needs to police off just two
police officers to operate it one to fly
the drone and the other to use the
recognition software police Scotland has
already deployed three of the drones
across Scotland and the systems formal
launch will come on Thursday in Glasgow
this is excellent thank you yes I agree
wholeheartedly this is the first time
we've had agreement I'm like I'm out of
place I have to like stand in the middle
yeah that was wonderful
what I really liked about this is the
fact that they used AI - yeah train the
the drone to look for the images and
filter out the rest of the data you know
what I love so cool our phones have AI
chips in them now yes yeah like our
phones our smartphone the thing that
fits in my pocket has an AI chip I love
it because I use it for my camera my
camera has AI mode and it is astonishing
have you ever seen a polka phone f1
panoramic photo using the AI mode like
it is amazing how you showed us your
birthday party yeah Luke's everywhere
he's like hold on when you move the
camera it's but the AI pieces it all
together it makes it work it was so it
was great versus the old you know
cameras gone by where somebody has half
of a body and half of a head yeah - two
legs sticking out of their back and
Leigh yeah it just didn't make any sense
but the AI like says okay well this is a
person let's that's right but AI in the
chip in the phone can now be used for
like controlling this kind of technology
I also like that it only takes two
police officers to use
which means that they can really do more
active searches everywhere knowing that
there's not a huge draw on the police
force yes so what all's ideal not just a
huge draw but as a police officer
because I obviously am one no but as a
police in the police force like if your
resources were so tapped that like you
know you know how any job is all right I
can't be I can't go through the like the
learning process and the training of
like this big onerous right system right
but I mean this thing that requires me
to like read manuals and manuals and
then like practice and practice and
learn it like they have to make it so
easy and easy as a relative term but
right easy in that like the AI does a
lot of the work so that they really like
they just need a quick training they
they know how to use it they've
practiced with it a little bit and they
can use it right it's as easy as that
and but I mean you've got the easy
aspect of it I mean obviously it's gonna
be more than just like we're simplifying
yeah yeah course but sure but the fact
is well like I mean we've had this in
our area over many years where somebody
will go missing there's tons of farmers
feel there's tons of forests it's easy
for somebody to get lost and you know
and in some cases it's led to fatalities
we've heard of that here yeah I could
think of one there was a teen boy who
ran away they did the grid search
pattern yeah and then he circled him
behind yeah and so they'd already done
the search but he came in behind because
he didn't stay put something like this
with a drone where you keep doing the
flybys it's gonna go oh hold on
we got him and but AI like AI can figure
it out and say be the difference between
life and death and for that reason I'm
like this is amazing and to tell you the
truth because the cost now will be so
much lower because it's not a huge team
of people it means that you can extend
the search longer - that's true
- people folks - people to find someone
who's lost right amazing it'll be neat
to see if they could advance this to the
point where you can I mean I'm
simplifying it but kind of like a dog
you know how that's like sniff
that oh that's what you're looking for
it'd be neat if say was a matter of a
certain type of vehicle or a certain
item of clothing it's like why not you
need to look for this yeah like I mean
we have the the whole amber alert system
and so often like my phone would go off
and it's like oh this is the vehicle
that was used license plate this sure
for this I mean how cool would it be be
like hey they're heading along this
highway corridor get that drone you scan
the cars you go I think that's it that's
kind of like taking this and saying okay
let it alone you could see how it could
advance with the AI mm it could be used
in this way sure what we're talking
about right now is the ability to find
that lost individual like think about
say like the Alzheimer's patient who
walks out of the the home and where are
they
yeah like to be able to find them and
help them that's what this technology is
about to do that's what they're doing
that's incredible it would be
interesting to see if they could hone in
the skills for densely populated areas
sure yeah well I'm thinking say that's
absolutely but I think Times Square New
Year's Eve New Year's Eve in New York oh
boy like the test focus I mean how cool
would it be at the point where they
could continue using imagery to train
and go
ok filter out this this is the image
we're look we're getting that's that's
somewhere we're getting that's not quite
this high you're looking at Person of
Interest yes okay that's an amazing idea
concept and and technology yes this is
not that yeah this is like oK we've lost
someone we got to find them quickly
before it's too late
yeah so sure really people you need to
find them quick
yeah and and that's what this is for
yeah sure those technologies are great
the Person of Interest idea that premise
of like every camera AI being able to
hone in on a person that's great but
that's that's more for this that falls
into like what
we were talking about with the Toronto
Airport where yeah they're they're
looking for for terrorism and they're
looking for people who are carrying
weapons and things like that's that's a
different thing altogether it is yes
this is helping those in need and that's
what this great that's what this is
targeting a news story it's good yes
we're taking that technology that could
be used for those types of like what
you're looking leaning toward yeah and
using it for just that the average like
hey like a kid who's walked out of their
home right and the parents are like
where did they go oh that by the time
they realize that they're out of the
house like this happen and so now
they've got a technology that using AI
can hopefully find that child or that
that Alzheimer's patient before it's too
late that's what this is about and
that's that's really an exciting use of
this technology and they are stressing
that that's what this is for it's not
for spying it's not for no AI elating
the privacy of the residents or anything
like that this is to help those who are
in need yes I'm really happy that you
like that good news story the next yeah
there's so much agreement around here is
really weird after initially denying it
the Nuclear Power Corporation of India
has now confirmed that their network of
nuclear power plants has been hacked
malware has been found on the
administrative network of the coote
inclu ylim nuclear power plants the
admission came a day after the company
issued a denial that any attack would
affect the plants control system the
breach was first detected on September
4th associate director ake a Nima's
stated quote the matter was immediately
investigated by the India Department of
atomic energy specialists the
investigation revealed that the infected
PC belonged to a user who was connected
to the Internet connected to the
connected network used for
administrative purposes this is isolated
from the critical internal network the
networks are being continuously
monitored end quote it's not clear if
data was stolen from the network but the
nuclear power plant was not the only
facility reported being compromised when
asked why he called the malware an
attack the malware attack an act of war
threat analyst Phu crush sang a formal
former analyst for India's National
Technical Research Organisation said
quote it was because of the second
target which I can't disclose of as of
now in quote while the attack might not
have given direct access to nuclear
power nuclear power control networks it
could have been a part of an effort to
establish a persistent presence on
nuclear plant on the nuclear plant
networks as a paper published in May by
the International Committee of the Red
Cross on the human cost of cyber
operations pointed out quote the
majority of the computer devices in the
world are only one or two steps away
from a trusted system that a determined
attacker could compromise end quote
the paper points out that quote
pre-emptive compromised of trusted
systems would make attacks significantly
easier unquote and that establishing a
persistent presence on a network could
aid in such things as supply chain
attacks attempts to use software update
processes or other potential
opportunities to move isolated networks
to deliver an attack in the future while
the administrative network of the
Nuclear Power Corporation was likely not
a good route for such a such an attack
given the standards for nuclear control
system security
it certainly could provide information
about maintenance operations that would
be useful for espionage or for a future
attempted cyber attack so yeah then
there's that yeah there's that it really
makes you think though about like
because we've talked about ransomware
we've talked about infiltrations on
networks and people getting hacked
because they had remote desktop enabled
and things like that but but
then you think about okay well but my
computer you know is my computer a key
computer right and here is just a
perfect example of well maybe it's not a
key computer but it has administrator
access yeah or perhaps in some cases has
access to network resources network
shares and things like that so if an
attacker an infiltrator can gain access
to just a computer on the network of the
nuclear power authority yeah it doesn't
have to be the main computers no it has
access to those yeah so if they then
gain access to this and figure out hey
what kind of access can we gain based on
this they may not even exploit that they
may just take that to the dark web mm-hm
and say guess what I have to the highest
bidder right it's scary it's a sobering
thought that that that's even a
possibility like it has happened yeah
now it's applause like now it's a
possibility that any amount to follow
could happen from this right well I mean
it really wants just opens our eyes yeah
I I mean when you're going through the
news story I mean my initial thought was
oh no how deep does this system go as
far as you know could you overload the
reactors or shut them down like but then
it's like oh you know you get the
separate components because of the
regulations that I'm thinking okay but
if this is something that is connected
to the rest of these say external
network not necessarily the internal
core maybe it's about a matter of
shipments of I mean I don't know nuclear
technology at theoretic works
theoretical yeah maybe it's like hey we
need to refresh our uranium we got to
get a supply chain in or get something
because it's talking about the supply
chain Network which is logistics that's
purchase here get it here do it there so
maybe it's a matter of hey is there a
uranium shipment oh let's hijack that
truck and yeah now we're talking about
missing uranium like I mean this kind of
goes
yeah I mean it's the sky's limit as far
as the external stuff that could be
impacting it and it just it comes back
to again the same deal you have to think
security and it's not just on your your
main critical components its security on
everything you got to be smart and the
thing is too that the hacker and and
along this line the hackers who are
responsible for this infiltration
they're not saying let's gain access to
this so that we can gain access to that
truckload of uranium that's coming in no
they're saying let's gain access that's
right whatever access we can get okay
we've got access what out what are we
doing what can we do with this yeah okay
so now we've got access to to order
processing we've got access to the files
oh who knows what right like it could be
any number of things but it's it's just
an entry point it could lay dormant for
years and they may not know it we know
from NASA that they had this dormant
Raspberry Pi that was that was
infiltrating their network for who knows
how long and and somebody had just
simply installed it on their network and
it gave them access through SSH to be
able to access the network which means
that for those who are familiar with SSH
like Popey for example we know that we
can create a reverse proxy into that SSH
device yeah so that means we now have
full access to the entire network which
is scary it certainly can be I worry
that there'll be more to come in this
news story for the fact that in the
quote the second breach wasn't like that
the non-disclosed one yeah there's more
but we can't tell you about that yeah
yeah and I mean that also makes you
wonder is this a matter of who we got in
here let's try this system in this
country cuz I mean it's not like you're
walking to Walmart be like oh yes I'm
gonna buy this nuclear security
technology software off-the-shelf like
there's not you can do that in America
there's not going to be too many
producers of software that runs a
nuclear power plant
so it's like okay we got into this one
here because they lack security now
let's try this next level in the next
level you know maybe it's a matter of
going around the globe and fishing for
those holes until finally you had you
know the Moby Dick it's like we got our
white whale
it's Jeff no conspiracy theory but still
okay we've got to take a quick break the
crypto report and more of this week's
top tech stories are coming up don't go
anywhere
welcome back to the category-five TV
newsroom now we're looking at the
cryptocurrency report this week
and as the crypto report on category 5
evolves please note we now have a
official web site or webpage that you
can visit in order to keep up with the
crypto report so if you head over to our
website category 5 dot TV click on shows
and then you'll see the category 5 dot
TV newsroom and there is a link directly
to the crypto report what that gives you
is the like the average information all
the data that we use here on the crypto
report in order to give you what is
current for cryptocurrency but you can
see that throughout the week is changing
it's a daily update ok so what we do is
we create averages for you based on all
of the information that we're able to
accumulate from various sources online
and so then we take that data we create
averages for you so that it basically
kind of makes it a little more
accessible it's a little easier to
understand and and things like being
able to see graphs that just makes sense
to see hey where's Bitcoin yeah week
where's turtle coin this week it's doing
really well by the way so I can't wait
to be exactly rich yeah speaking of the
now things are fairly static as a matter
of fact Bitcoin gaining only 123 bucks
so it's sitting at nine thousand three
hundred and nineteen dollars and eighty
cents okay so it's pretty static
Facebook Libre is still not trading
we've got light coin at sixty three
dollars and six cents up a little bit
everything's up just a little bit
aetherium also a one eighty 409 so it's
gaining just 61 cents per aetherium coin
it's not bout Manero up at sixty 297 the
US dollar equivalent on the coin Scalla
looking at the little micro coins is at
0.32 and as I mentioned turtle coin is a
real performer this week yeah
astonishingly sitting now
we're talking about a gain from last
week at 0.26 ten thousandth of a cent
yep to this week
zero point four three that's what about
a 60% jump a huge jump for turtle
passive and if we look at those graphs
on category five dot TV slash crypto a
report you'll see that turtle coin this
week has gone kind of like this and then
and it's that one coin that's just going
up but it's a micro coin yes so we're
talking ten thousandth yeah a cent but
considering it is a micro coin it's very
easy to mine it's very easy to purchase
or invest in and very affordable it's a
good way to get in on cryptocurrency but
because of that it's it's like it's not
worth a lot mm-hmm you have to have a
lot of them for it to be worth anything
but seeing that trend and seeing that it
is growing very very quickly if that's
really encouraging for those who are
investing in micro coins yeah but keep
in mind the cryptocurrency market is
always changing it's always volatile and
it never closes that means so pin 24/7
that means if you go to bed at 11
o'clock at night and get up at 4 yes
yeah it's completely flipped on its head
so like you got to keep that in mind and
and what our recommendation here
category 5 TV is is simply to only
invest and only put into cryptocurrency
what you can afford to lose because you
know if you take that approach if you
say you know I'm probably gonna lose
this then hey if you gain you're just
doing great exactly but I don't want you
to invest in something that hey if you
lose you're really losing okay so I want
you to invest only what you can afford
to lose Sasha if we can head back to
your news room because I know you've got
a couple of great stories for us this
week
sure do admit Stan already rocky ship
following their response to US sanctions
in Venezuela Adobe continues to falter
in the eyes of users making a security
blunder that exposed around 7.5 million
user records to the public security
researcher Bob dye Shenko together with
a compare attack discovered the
unsecured database Adobe had left the
data of its users on a
luckily accessible server specifically
the researchers discovered an unsecured
elastic database containing data of
Adobe Creative Cloud users anyone with
access to the Internet could easily view
the data without requiring any
authentication the unprotected server
contained around 7.5 million records of
the users the data included personal
information of the individuals such as
email addresses member ID country date
of account creation subscription status
payment status Adobe products and use
and time since last login it also leaked
information about whether the user is an
Adobe employee or not despite the
explicit personal information it leaked
the unsecured database did not expose
any financial data or passwords the
researchers discovered the unsecured
database on October 19th 2019 upon
discovering the database they
immediately notified Adobe about it
following their report the company
secured the database the same day
however daya Shankar that the database
remained publicly accessible for about a
it also remains unconfirmed whether
anyone else has access to the database
during this time compare a text report
States quote the information exposed in
this leak could be used against Adobe
Creative Cloud users in targeted
phishing emails and scams fraudsters
could pose as a Adobe or a related
company and trick users into giving up
further information such as passwords
for example
end quote users should remain very
careful and be overly skeptical if they
receive any emails that appear to be
from Adobe especially if it asks for
passwords or sensitive data or requires
the user to click a link or call a phone
number ok so anyone who has the Internet
yes has access to 7.5 million user
records yep yes anyone who has the
Internet yes
think about that for now that's a really
big blunder that's like anyone anybody
anyone watching this
yep do you remember Mission Impossible
first movie like everything that Tom
Cruise had to go through to get the NOC
list no you're going way back dude it's
like all the read you just watch this
didn't you no no I've watched any years
but I'm listened to the story and I'm
thinking have we gotten like relaxed as
a society that we're going we got like
super secure Nakhla sand and now you've
got it's like a we got all this
information it's just out there yet my
grandma could find it I suspect if there
is a are they an employee yes or no
column I feel like it's from it must be
from an employee computer is not on the
list of somebody yeah it's it's
unfortunate that this was such a blunder
by Adobe because they are a respected
name within the industry I mean
everybody goes all Adobe I use Adobe I
know Adobe I go ah Adobe right but
here's the thing like I hear the story
to go if it was a Facebook I go oh come
on again but I hear Dobby I'm like
really
Dobby yeah come on look there that's the
core of who I flash but maybe we didn't
get relaxed I think we just have never
got to the point where we understand the
importance of security like as a general
public like it's not that they relax
themselves
it's that nobody's ever been as secure
as they ought to be I think as a society
we've gotten too relaxed I think we go
oh I've got encryption oh I've got we
put too much trust in the software that
totes all these wonderful things and we
forget about the very basic security I
think I honestly think that I mean and I
don't know a lot about Adobe's history
but I think that something like this
would lead me to believe that maybe
they've never been on the forefront of
security there you go they're the ones
who make flash
okay buddy so here's the challenge with
this one is you've got all this
information that's out there and right
at the end of the story you're like oh
people you could get these emails trying
to get your login information how does
it Dobby go out there and contact 7
million people what a dhobi that's gonna
do that no but how do you go out there
and go by the way you're part of the
list don't give her your information but
you might want to update it or do some
sort of security measures without them
going really really I'm sure you're not
here to sell me duct cleaning really
there's to be honest there's no reason
why you should ever be giving that
information ever anyway I agree this is
just another one of those stories that
makes me think ok well hopefully the
people that I am in contact with on the
daily or love or just general humanity
knows that if somebody says hey type
your password in here you're not going
to listen you know this really drives us
to that mindset of thinking that when we
sign up with these companies for their
services we need to use fake names we
need yes fake account information like
because keep in mind
okay so passwords weren't exploited this
time so but it does go to show that we
have to use a different password on
every service that we use online if
passwords were exploited what other
services would have been exploited of
ours folks as like if we use the same
password on our online banking and on
our Twitter account all most people do
then a lot of people do okay you take
care of that I know I just need like I
need I need a cleanse of it like I need
because I've started but then you get
all panicky and things like LastPass can
help with that because you can do a
local dump too like a comma separated
value file yes that you can then open
into LibreOffice calc or Excel
whatever you use and do do it look
through and see where you've used the
same password over and over again
yeah and fix that right go into those
services and correct it and then delete
your file that you've created but it
really just goes to show that like when
you put your information out there we
trust that someone like Adobe they're
big and we can trust them with our data
like we're talking about our address our
payment information our financial
information and our account information
and and enough to probably do some some
rudimentary identity theft certainly
phishing scams and spear phishing are
big concerns right now because any
customer who is exploited like 7.5
million people here folks like this is
not like 200 people this is 7.5 million
Adobe customers who have been exposed
and you're gonna hit some people who are
not very tech savvy and when those
people receive those emails that look
exactly like an Adobe email saying hey
your account has been compromised click
here to reset your password and it takes
you to add 0b3 dot-com yep and lets you
enter your password now they've got your
password they didn't get it the first
time that they got it down yeah yeah and
now that's the same password that you
use on your online banking and your
Twitter account your Facebook account
and everything else and that's where it
all starts right and once they get your
email account well then they can find
your bank and they can say forgot
password send me the email see and
that's why for things like this I mean
maybe I'm just a little bit over
paranoid but the fact that I have 15
different emails like some people like
you're not to get 15 but I do I have
Jeff won one nail down but I have some
emails for certain things I've some
emails for others okay that way I don't
have those linked systems yes and it's
just it's one more little layer of
secure its like okay if I get breached
on this email but I mean even within
those email systems I also have
different password systems and all of
are individualized so can I just save
you a lot of trouble and just say you
know what two-factor authentication is
the answer Jeff yeah I know so that if
your email account got compromised well
they've got your password right but not
everybody does two-factor authentication
they don't have your phone but Gmail
does G yes there are some that do set it
up I know but not all services recognize
that I truly wish there was to fact what
service does not have two-factor
authentication and you don't have to say
it out loud but if they do not offer
two-factor authentication move on there
let's just move on if your bank doesn't
have two factor authentication for
online banking oh yeah they're banking
wrong yep nirvan yes I've get a
different Bank they've got it I don't
think any of my banks don't have to
factor that but right there are services
that I use and with an organization that
I'm that I volunteer with they use other
services that are pretty specific to
what they use and some of those are you
know you've you can't get other options
out there it's it's that software and
that service is individualized and they
don't offer to factor so it's like you
can't go somebody somewhere else mm-hmm
and it's something that's that's a huge
failing on them and for those for those
companies who can't offer it it don't
give I don't real info I don't think
anything it's just that they haven't but
then don't give them real info by your
name the other way don't you guys want
to say that in your Terms of Service
that I have to give you my home address
well you know what you don't have to
factor authentication so I'm giving you
my postal box sure period yep there's no
way I'm giving you my home address when
you don't even have to factor
authentication period that's how we as
users have to be yes because if we're
not putting our foot down to protect our
data and the confidentiality of our
lives then we're as much to blame as the
service providers who don't offer those
protections but I think a lot of that is
industry mindset and I think the
industry nest needs to get to the
standpoint of going okay we can't rely
upon the public to
protect themselves we have to go that
extra level and I think so often it's we
got to get this out we got to push it
out we're on a budget we got to move
we'll deal with this and we'll get to
that other stuff later and I think
that's I think that's a problem there
are big problems when it comes to
budgets absolutely there we're not even
gonna go there okay where we are wants
to move on an interesting and unexpected
flaw in how smart devices work has
turned up as five months after returning
a rental car the customer discovered
that he can still track the vehicle lock
and unlock it and even start and stop
its engine when massamba Sinclair rented
a Ford Expedition from Enterprise
rent-a-car last May he was excited to
connect it to Ford Pass the app allows
drivers to use their phones to remotely
start and stop the engine lock and
unlock the doors and track the vehicles
precise location he says quote I enjoyed
it and logged into Ford pass to be able
to access vehicle features from my phone
such as locking unlocking and starting
the engine I liked the idea of it more
than I found it useful the UI does look
good and work well though end quote now
Sinclair's opinion of mobile apps and
rental cars is decidedly less favorable
that's because five months after he
returned the vehicle on May 31st his app
continues to have control over the
vehicle despite multiple other people
renting the SUV in the intervening
months Ford passed still allow Sinclair
to track the location of the vehicle
lock and unlock it and start or stop its
engine
Sinclair has brought the matter to
ford's attention both through its
website and multiple times on twitter so
far Ford has been nothing to kill his
access he says of the setup quote all it
took was me downloading the app and
entering the VIN and then confirming
connectivity through the infotainment
system and quote while he believes there
is probably a way to disassociate his
phone from the car itself
he's right in thinking it's crazy to put
the onus on renters to have to do that
not to mention the security questions
that that raises
I kind of feel like this is like an
issue on the car rental companies yeah
yeah yeah oh I feel I feel like they
need to have like like okay add to your
like when you're vacuuming out the car
when you're cleaning the seats you got
to reset the computer right right like
that has to be part of the methodology
so what's funny is I pre read the
stories right okay so I this morning
loaded up the news stories to read them
make sure that I pronounced everything
right and then I check my calendar and
I'm like oh yeah my cars getting fixed
that's pickup my rental today
does it have I didn't even I haven't
connected I mean I just picked it up in
on the way here but I am no I totally do
hey if you rent a Tesla you can actually
control it like a remote-control car
with my arm no with your app yeah so
like totally like see hey hey if you
rent a Tesla let's see what kind of I
haven't rented a Tesla but I have rented
other vehicles I mean just my communing
job I've had car accidents so you get
it's in the shop you get a rental yeah
and I have not yet rented a car that has
Bluetooth capabilities that doesn't have
all of the previous users who have
connected data removed oh yeah there was
one that I picked up and I chuckled and
I went back into the to the dealer and I
saying you spotted this I was a user I
had heard the rancher I haven't even
left the rental Lot and I walked by and
I'm like do you guys clear the computer
what are you talking about I'm like I
want to show you something
there's the previous well I'm assuming
the previous eight renters but there was
eight renters Bluetooth information on
there including their GPS searches come
on it was all in the computer like this
is ridiculous man so that is only
available at like within the vehicles
database not even talking about
connection remotely and I'm like yeah
but what's the answer next maybe like
I've got an idea guys and be like
for sure yeah but what is the answer
because like if the car manufacturers
start putting like a kill button that
like resets everything then like that's
the greatest gag like at a party like
just push the kill button on everyone's
car but I feel like if you're gonna buy
like it's you can get you can contact
that by there should be what if I bought
a car that somebody previously owned and
they start killing my engine on sure you
know how you can put your governor's on
the speed of like NASCAR cars sure okay
so why would you they're NASCAR you want
them but they should be able to put like
a security governor on that has to stay
on if it's a rent rental car that's
right yeah take it off if it's a
privately owned and that's where I was
going is if you are a fleet based rental
company like you know hoods or something
yeah that's like oh we're you know Ford
we want to buy you know a fleet of 20
vehicles are going to put it across
nationwide outlets that you have it
built in to the software that there is
an automatic reset and for yeah but do
you like Ford or any other who's got the
ability to program go hey you know we've
got this feature
well it's 50 bucks a car don't worry but
it's because of the user data that get
you okay this is a great feature your
honor the days where there used to be a
valet key you have a regular key a valet
key wouldn't open the glove compartment
okay yeah they need the equivalent of
that for data yeah can I just say yeah
we're having this discussion and we've
had this discussion for all of two
minutes and 30 seconds yep and I think
we are we've got the answer in that okay
so so these big companies that like Ford
because Ford is the example yeah why
have they not have this discussion for
two minutes and 30 seconds to say okay
let's just say how long have you been
away from your car now yours is in for
service so that's an interesting case
how long have you been away from your
car right now since 4:30 perfect how
long have you been away from your car
two and a half hours okay how long will
you be away from your car to date so
that what's today the six so you've got
like in a week okay so so let's say a
week yes so I miss it already
are you ever away from your car for a
vacations pretty rare though right so if
I'm away from my car for four days my
phone app disconnects from my car unless
I approach my car and then it reconnects
and it says you've been away from your
car for four days enter your PIN hmm
yeah and it shows the pin on the screen
in the car that makes sense okay just to
throw that out there right if I'm away
from my car for two weeks it just
deactivates the connection altogether
you just have to reactivate it let's
just say okay there's a there on the
screen in the car it shows a pin and on
my phone if I have not been at the car
physically within the last four days I
have to enter that pin into my phone
it's afford to Japan Mart and that's a
little solved answer we solved it why
the heck aren't they doing that this is
what we do here we fix the world's
problems but that just makes sense like
that's that's like stupid yeah so far
are you watching cuz yeah come on now
just do it and like call it the cat five
feature here or something yeah exactly
my car doesn't have bluetooth oh yeah
big thanks to Ray W Nash in our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight lytx
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at patreon.com slash
newsroom from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson and I'm Jeff Weston well
thank you everybody for being here with
us this week that's all the time that we
have but it's been great having you here
and we appreciate each and every one of
you don't forget we are on twitter at
category-five TV you can also find us on
pretty much anywhere that you want to
watch shows like
YouTube or we're even on Facebook I mean
if you go on Facebook and search for
category 5 TV we're there right yeah
like every year I say to people I'm not
on Facebook except on Wednesdays yes
they're just search for category 5 TV
yeah we're pretty much everywhere so do
a search for us and you'll find us but
Twitter
we're active Facebook we do broadcast
live and I post some memes there once in
a while that are quite fun that but
really funny Twitter's the place our
website category 5 dot TV is a great
place to connect with the show that's
where everything is yeah that's kind of
where it all comes together folks so we
hope to see you there have a wonderful
week everyone and thank you for being
here with us see
