my life is Google slides oh let's call
it Google PowerPoint from here odds ya
know it slides and then I go to school
and I'm like y'all got slides they're
like huh
let me when I hear slides I think about
like a like a microscope you're wrong
it's the best ever
okay slides that is my they're like my
homeboy but you're you're on a what
we'll call a pseudo Chromebook right
this is a cloud ready yes home brew
custom made Chromebook yeah that you
built I built it well yeah I took it
what was I'm looking at the stickers
here a Windows 7 computer yes and turned
it into a Chromebook using cloud ready
exactly from never wear and it's perfect
but it's not perfect is it you have to
learn I had to learn a little bit of the
ins and outs about different OS yeah you
can't install Photoshop right but here's
where it's not necessarily perfect Sasha
what happens if you don't have internet
with a cloud book I pan with a cloud
ready Chromebook well then I panic you
don't have access to your stuff right so
what happens I think I think that
Chromebooks have really got it going on
when it comes to the ability to take
your content from computer to computer
and access it right so if I was on your
Chromebook and I logged in as me it's
going to connect out to the Google cloud
servers and I have access to all of my
documents all of my sheets all of my
slides
aka PowerPoint aka impress right yes and
then I come over to my Chromebook and I
log in as myself and I have access to
those exact same things without having
to transfer anything on a USB flash
drive or through a network it's all in
the cloud brilliant yeah fantastic for
people going to and from
and things like that but what happens if
you don't have internet you have zero
not okay zero access to your files right
if you can call them files they're not
really files
here's here's the like slightly
princessy thing about me is I've never
not had internet like I don't even know
like I would panic if you what if you're
gonna go visit the cottage I guess let's
just put that out as a and I can use
that as a example because when I go to
the cottage there's probably not
internet right we're in the middle of
the woods so what if you go to the
proverbial cottage where is your cottage
it could be just anywhere where you
don't have internet access which is a
brilliant place to be I think that's a
great place to be hmm well lo and behold
today we're gonna learn how to set it up
so that even if you don't have internet
access
you can still access all your documents
okay all your PowerPoint slides all your
Excel sheets I have to drop these names
in because if you say well what are
sheets it's it's like the online version
of Excel it's right so what do you say
weird spreadsheets word you can say yeah
weird documents but Docs Google Docs is
pretty self-explanatory when they get
into sheets and slides it's like what
are slides right yeah Google
presentation or whatever that one is I
don't even I I've never even dabbled in
it okay yeah let's so let's actually
jump on to my computer and we want to
learn what it takes in order to get my
computer to be able to communicate with
my Drive account without internet
connectivity okay and I think you'll be
surprised how easy this is so this takes
the Chromebook takes the the cloud ready
notebook into a whole new realm but also
now here I'm using Linux Mint but as
long as you have Google Chrome right and
a Google Drive account which let's face
it everybody
these days has a Google Drive account
especially if you're using Google for
your email let's jump over to my
computer here and I'm gonna go to Drive
drive.google.com I've gotten so used to
typing on a organ ama keyboard because
of my owner nerve entrapment that typing
on a laptop feels really really weird
tonight so here I am in my drive so I've
got access to for example the show notes
from tonight's show so here's how we do
things around here so we type it out
into Google Docs well I want to be able
to access that if I'm sitting at my
cottage if I'm sitting anywhere have
access to it so what I want to do is I
want to click on this gear icon here
while I'm in Drive and click on settings
and in settings look at this we've got
offline create open and edit your recent
Google Docs sheets and slides files from
this device while offline the Google
Docs offline extension will be added to
Chrome so I'm going to click on that and
it's going to tell me that I need this
extension we need to install Google Docs
offline in my Chrome browser so do keep
in mind I have to be using Chrome here I
can't be using Firefox
yep be using edge okay so install this
in chrome alright so we're gonna get
into the extension here and it's gonna
show me okay there it is Google Docs
offline add to Chrome do you want to add
this extension yeah add that extension
there we go that was quick
could it be that simple well let's see
let's jump back to my drive I'm gonna
close out of extensions here and here
now I'm gonna click on offline again
click that check box now that I've got
the extension installed and you see down
at the bottom left there it says setting
up offline so there's nothing else that
I'm needing to do I can just I can click
on done I can bring back up my document
I can see what's going on here and it's
it's due
it's thing in the background it's kind
of sinking the most recently edited
files to my laptop so it's important
along that vein see how it's setting up
offline still so if you look at the
storage on my left hand side here what I
notice is that I'm using fifty eight
point five gigabytes of my 230 gigabyte
quota so worst case scenario if this was
to sync my entire Drive it's going to
require fifty eight gigs of my hard
drive so I need to probably make sure
that I have somewhere close to as much
drive space left on my laptop as I do
you know for the synchronization to take
place but it's not going to take up that
full amount of space necessarily it's
going to be the most recent files or
right you can in fact open a file
looking at today's episode again I can
actually click file once it's loaded
here file and I can specify make
available offline do you see that so
this particular file if I click on that
it will ensure that this file is
available offline so regardless of
whether I added it today or tomorrow or
if it's going to get bumped off the list
if I have it specified that it is
available offline it will always be
available offline for me which is pretty
handy if you've got a file that you
refer to requite frequently but you
don't necessarily edit quite frequently
excellent this is very very helpful for
your Chromebook yes I do have a question
that perhaps might be outside of your
ability to answer I like those okay if I
have a shared document I understand that
obviously if I'm working offline any of
the edits I make obviously aren't going
to show up in the shared person's
documents but if they're making changes
and I'm making changes whose changes
scream obviously yours Thanks right I
would hope so but I great answer
gentlemen that's
so that's an interesting question that
would be a good like a deathmatch Google
Drive shared file sentence and you
changed the same sentence and then we'll
both get back online and see presumably
though as soon as I get online it's
gonna synchronize and it's gonna try to
reconcile those differences but yeah
that's an interesting question that
you're right I don't necessarily know
the answer off the top my head but
that's something we could try right we
could definitely try that for today's
demonstration I'm thinking of this from
the perspective Sascha of these are your
files you're editing them these are my
files I'm editing them I just want to
have access to them so for example if
I'm writing a novel or a short story or
a technical documentation and I go away
to the cottage and I have no internet I
can keep working on it or you know I
don't have to be concerned about the
need for Internet to be able to work on
my documents I can do that but plus
because it's in the cloud so as soon as
I do synchronize to the Internet it's
now backed up it's got there are copies
that now it's in the cloud and I can
copy that to my backup so you know
that's pretty brilliant
so that dialogue that said that it was
sinking to my system is now gone which
presumably means it is complete so this
is what things look like now that
dialogue is gone and so we're gonna take
a really quick break and when we come
back I'm going to in fact take away my
internet connectivity you've seen me
bring up that episode document I want to
see what happens if we completely kill
the internet here and see what it takes
to edit that document a test run yeah
stick around
[Music]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts all right before the
break we were looking at how to activate
offline access to our Google Drive which
is Docs sheets slides slides it's gonna
take some getting used to even still now
before I disconnect my internet there's
one final thing Sasha that I really want
to do ok I have now I've got Linux Mint
you do not you've got cloud ready
correct on Linux Mint I've got
LibreOffice writer
I've got LibreOffice calc I've got
LibreOffice impress so those are great
for editing files but as I said this is
not quite files these are cloud based
you know they're they're files but
they're in the cloud I don't necessarily
have direct access to the files
themselves unless I download them sync
them to a backup something like that in
this instance though I want to turn I
want to make it so that I can open my
editors from my computer quite easily so
the best way for me to do that before we
turn off my internet so this is the
final step before we disconnect my
internet I'm gonna create a new tab and
I'm just gonna go to docs.google.com
just like that this is going to take me
to Google Docs which has access to
templates my most recently open stuff
all that kind of things and now I'm
gonna click on these three dots up at
the top right which are my menu for
Google Chrome and click on more tools
and create shortcut it's gonna ask me
what I want this shortcut to be and I'm
gonna call it Google Docs just by
default so now it doesn't look like it
did anything but if I minimize this
you're gonna see that on my desktop
there is now a link for Google Docs and
if I click on that it's going to
actually launch Google Docs just like I
just had up so looking at my desktop
again you see the icons that are there
let's jump back to my Google Chrome and
let's now go to sheets google.com which
is your Excel equivalent and I'm going
to do exactly the same task and you
notice that I'm doing this because I
don't have to install any of the
additional stuff to be able to gain
access to these offline I don't have to
install like the offline backup service
or anything like that now if I minimize
I've got Google sheets right see that
and now the final one is called what
slide slides
google.com again I have not disconnected
my internet yet these are all accessible
I don't use slides as you see the kids
send me their Christmas lists and
annoying orange yes more tools create
shortcut and I want to do it from right
here where no files are open so that I
can easily open files or I can create
new files within that application so now
I'm gonna close out of everything and
now I see I've got Google Docs Google
sheets and Google slides so now if I
double click on Google Docs on my
desktop it brings up Chrome and it
brings up Google Docs so I can now
create a new blank document and I can
get started just as if I was using
Microsoft Word for example right it's a
very similar kind of experience to me
which however no online but I'm still
online that's the thing but remember
before the break
we enabled offline access yeah could it
be possible I want to know all right so
here's what I'm gonna do we're doing
this live and so presumably everything
is going to work flawlessly as it always
does when we are live thanks Sasha okay
I'm gonna turn off my wireless network
interface so now I have no internet
connectivity on my laptop I'm gonna
bring up Chrome and you'll notice no
internet when it tries to access my site
if I go to any site it's gonna give me
the same thing google.com no internet it
just quickly no internet but what
happens now if I click on one of these
links on the desktop that I created
Google Docs what the heck aw come on man
I like it
right am i right okay so I've got a list
of all of the most recent documents so
here's the the one that we just created
today for today's show and there's the
file you know I can resume editing this
file and this is in fact offline as I
edit it so if I make any changes it's
just there we go all changes saved
offline offline changes will be synced
when you go back online it says okay so
these changes are not gonna be appearing
to anyone else right now right but
remember the scenario is okay so I'm
writing at the cottage I'm carrying on
and then I get to the library in town
and I've got access to the internet so
suddenly I can sync those changes back
to my Google Drive account right but I
can keep working I don't have to have
internet in order to use these internet
tools so now let's turn back on our
internet turn back on Wi-Fi it's going
to automatically connect and we're gonna
see things are gonna change here because
now that I've connected saving
automatically just like that all changes
saved in Drive instantaneously just like
that so now these changes so if I go to
drive.google.com and then open up that
document again
number six 10 is the episode that you're
watching live right now or on-demand if
you're watching after the fact and if I
click on that file
there's my test that I type while I was
offline right so what we've accomplished
is we've taken now your Chromebook which
is a free distribution of linux
available from Neverwhere calm yeah and
that software now has converted your old
laptop into a screaming fast Chromebook
exactly it's a lightweight it does a
great job but you now have offline
access to those documents you even have
offline access to Docs Cal Cal
I say but sheets right and slice right
so you have access to those three
applications offline even without having
to install anything or I mean you needed
to impact allow it to activate the
plug-in the extension can you open and
start a new document well let's give it
a try so let's jump back to my laptop
here I'm gonna close everything sacha
just to answer your question and get
offline yeah so let's turn off my
internet okay and then start a whole new
we all know that I don't use slides so
I'm going to bring that up I'm offline I
have no internet connectivity right now
and just to prove that I'm gonna go
google.com no internet okay now one of
the things you're gonna notice here is
that these have not yet synced because I
have not been online long enough for it
to sync these files or they have not
been marked as safe for offline use or
they have not been opened or edited in a
time frame that Google has determined is
something that I need access to offline
so remember that it's not using all of
the space of your hard drive based on
how much drive space you have on Google
Drive it's only going to give you remote
access offline to files that you it
deems that you think will be necessary
yeah my kids Christmas list from 2018
it's figured out that I probably don't
need to be able to access that offline
because I haven't opened it since then
July because I finished my Christmas
shopping early right presumably so let's
try it let's sum it down in the right
bottom right hand Thank You sash I was
gonna say how the heck do you create a
slide but there you go so create a new
slide presentation sashes test slide
there you go so there there you go okay
so you're creating slides like layouts
and such well I I would imagine so so
how do you get there
so okay wait Sasha's taking control here
folks layout layout see okay so yeah
okay but themes don't look like you can
do a theme so themes are grayed out
these are grayed out yeah let's see
change background okay so you can do all
that yeah okay that's good that's good
you just can't you can't apply a theme
but you can create your own theme but
you could apply the theme online and
then continue editing it offline yes
exactly you create it all and then later
when you're online apply a theme so if I
go online Sasha
am I going to suddenly have access to
these mystical themes so I'm gonna go
online I've just turned on my wireless
adapter and what happens here so
connection established
and what happens theme there we go
I now have access to themes that's how I
make all of my stuff look pretty there
you go
brilliant so that's all there is to it
folks of course Google Drive is
available for any gmail user Google user
it's free but if you need to use a lot
of space you do have to pay a little bit
even with the amount of space that I use
it only cost me like five bucks a month
yeah to use it plus I have full email
service and everything else in calendar
it's brilliant it's affordable and it
works very very well and now we've got
available access to it offline as well
[Applause]
