covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias Sony has given gamers a first
look at the design of its next console
as well as some of the titles it will
play due to the corona virus pandemic
Sony opted to stream a pre-recorded
video rather than host a live event the
PlayStation 5 has a black core
surrounded by curved white edging and a
blue glow to follow ups two best-selling
ps4 releases were among the standout
games announcements spider-man Miles
Morales and horizon forbidden West
Sony's machine will launch alongside
Microsoft's rival Xbox series X before
the end of the year so many people
remarked that the console looked like a
Wi-Fi router that the term trended on
Twitter shortly after the event more
than two dozen new games were shown off
in total other highlights included a
first look at Sony's racing game Gran
Turismo 7 and a brief look at Cap Korn
Capcom's zombie horror game Resident
Evil 8 the PlayStation 5 is set to go on
sale later this year seven years after
the ps4 in addition to being able to
deliver improve visuals the new machine
also has a customized hard drive that
will make it possible to radically
reduce load times sony is building a
library of launch titles that will only
be available on its next-generation
machine including some brand new titles
never-before-seen one of the more
unusual games was stray a third-person
cat adventure that's set in a neon-lit
cyber city there was no mention of any
virtual reality games however nor was
there any mention of a PlayStation 5
version of the Last of Us 2 rather than
a quantum leap this next generation
looks like it might be built around lots
of smaller improvements in areas like
audio with 3d sound and improved haptic
feedback in the controller beyond better
visuals and faster loading times what
does the next generation actually mean
when it comes to games
on this evidence more of the same
shooters racers third-person adventure
titles and sports games things we
already have but graphically improved
