covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias traveling during the pandemic
can be tough that's why the latest
version of Google Maps for Android and
iOS has several features that might help
travelers get around safely now when you
look up public transit directions maps
will show Cova 19 related alerts Google
points out that data will only be
available where it can get info from the
local transit agencies and only on trips
that are likely to be affected by kovat
19 restrictions these alerts are rolling
out in Argentina Australia Belgium
Brazil Colombia France India Mexico
Netherlands Spain Thailand United
Kingdom and the US and Google says
they're going to they're coming to more
countries soon Maps will also display
alerts when you navigate to medical
facilities or kovat 19 testing centers
warning you to verify eligibility and
facility guidelines to avoid being
turned away or causing additional strain
on the local healthcare system alerts
for medical facilities are rolling this
week in Indonesia Israel the Philippines
South Korea and the u.s. alerts for
testing centers will only be available
in the US again google says it will only
show these alerts when it can get a thor
authoritative data from local state and
federal governments or from their web
sites google says the app will also tell
you how crowded buses Subway's and
transit stations will be plus you'll be
able to see when a transit station has
historically been less busy so you can
plan ahead Google says these features
are powered by aggregated and anonymized
data from users who opted in to Google
location history they'll be rolling out
in the next several weeks
finally the app will show you driving
alerts notifying you about kovat 19
checkpoints and restrictions along your
route for example when crossing national
borders this feature will initially only
be available in Canada Mexico and the U
[Music]
