welcome to category five technology TV
pine 64 has done it again and done it
better than ever with the pine book pro
u.s. keyboard ANSI Edition we're gonna
be getting into the box we're gonna be
actually taking it apart and looking
inside and we're gonna be learning all
about this beautiful $200 Linux Pro book
in just a couple of those times - crap
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only the
solid state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 TV welcome
to the show everybody it's so nice to
have you here last week was a bit of a
write-off because we had some technical
difficulties but this week we are on the
air I think we're on the air am i right
chatroom can you see us can you hear us
are the lights good is the sound good
are we here yes I believe we are I
believe we are I think we are at least
I'm here we are not just a figurative
we're not gonna get 20 minutes in and
then realize that we're not actually
recording and broadcasting 20 minutes of
any show ever it was a really great
start it was fantastic so we should just
play that clip except none of us are
wearing the same shirt that would have
been a good way to save ourselves 20
minutes this week we could have just
like we're like played back the
recording from the first 20 minutes of
last welcome to the show everybody its
category 5 technology TV episode number
6 41 and I'm keeping track of my heart
rate and my steps everything else and
you will be too because today is the
fifth Wednesday of the month and then
suddenly all of our shirts change that's
strange yeah Marsh man tells us in in
this court that that we are in fact on
the air so for you watching at home
wherever you're watching from it's nice
to have you here thank you for joining
us this week we do have an exciting show
planned for you before we get into it
now
last week was the fifth week of January
and as you know on any month where we
have five weeks we do have a prize
giveaway last week we couldn't do it
because of those technical difficulties
we're gonna do that for you this week we
are giving away the fitness tracker that
Robbie is wearing on his wrist and this
thing has been really quite great I love
being able to track my steps my heart
rate and my blood pressure some folks
have said well those things are not
really accurate when it comes to blood
pressure I really want to sit down at
the pharmacy and put on like that
pressure cuddles oh yeah they've got the
pharmaceutical grade like the same thing
that the doctor uses at the pharmacy you
don't want to have like a telltale vein
that pops out when your pressure gets to
a certain and I can just go like this
and just be like yeah that's how I know
when you see that vein pop you know
Robby's blood pressure is a little bit
heights like those guys from Star Trek
the aliens that like give you the visual
the fake visuals you know how they
trapped Kirk and we're going back to
like the original oh yeah yeah right I
don't remember their name but I don't
know what you're talking I think of it
that was like the first - is like oh
yeah yeah
as far as the blood pressure thing goes
though I really want to see like how
accurate is this some folks have said
it's not that accurate but it's been
showing me some information about my
blood pressure which is cool and I want
to do that test and see right how
accurate is it compared to that
pharmaceutical grade even if it's not
bang on it's a better indicator than
what you had with no indication gas 131
over 84 what am I doing wrong right now
we're talking about the feed being down
people have normal nightmares Robby
wakes up screaming that there's no fee
there's no feed no you're absolutely
right though about the accuracy of this
this is not a medical device no what it
is is it's something that allows me to
have
some oversight into my own health so it
doesn't have to be bang on accurate it
just has to give me something that I can
graph something that I can understand
you know how am i doing today what kind
of improvements have I made have I
gotten more steps this this day than the
other day or that the answer is no we're
your coworkers
I showed her how many steps I got today
and she laughed yeah but I cut those
steps by 33% on discord I posted our
photos it's like yes it's 33 under step
so I'm like 2200 steps you're not
supposed to tell the viewers how poorly
I'm doing today but but this is an
improvement this device really with
under a thousand steps on my walk I hope
you were vacation and sitting on a beach
with a mojito so you can check your
stats on yes you will be able to if you
win win yes and you win by just simply
post us in discord oh you're asking me
you could tell them I was looking at my
door I really like being able to track
my sleep so I like being able to see how
things affect my sleep and it graphs it
and it shows me how my sleep is in it I
wouldn't sleep yeah yeah how long did
you sleep last night last night we slept
for eight hours oh you win but seven
hours so I was bang on my my 15 Wow so I
was bang on my goal last night but I can
actually graph it on my phone and see
the quality of that sleep I loved it so
I mean this is just an affordable kind
of entry level fitness tracker and
giving one away this week all you have
to do is just message us in the discord
channel or if you're not on disk or go
onto our IRC and just message us your
your handle and where you are watching
from and just say something like I want
to qualify for that fitness tracker so
Marsh man is in there and even like last
week you've broken the pen that's two
weeks in a row
there's a reason why his blood pressure
is 130 this is oh yes okay all right you
got to figure it out I think Sasha has
figured out how to use a pen and she is
gonna write down your name if you
message us now if you're watching this
if you're watching this after the fact
if you're watching this on cable TV
afterwards and you're like oh I really
wish I could participate in these
contests well there are opportunities
for you to do that all you have to do is
email live at category-five dot TV let
us know that you'd like to participate
in the contest and we will include you
as a ballot we'll include that email as
a ballot in our next our next draw so
just let us know where you're watching
from and that you'd like to participate
in that draw how am i doing now so I'm
down at 129 over 83 so I'm I'm starting
to settle I'm ready to do a show now
doesn't break repent again yes do you
know when the next 5th Wednesday's I
don't know it's usually like every three
months or so yeah something like that
watch your calendar and every time you
see a fifth Wednesday you know that
we're gonna be doing a giveaway so
that's how you know all right so before
we get into tonight's show I want to
remind you to make sure you subscribe to
us on YouTube click that Bell as well
that's gonna make sure that you get
those notifications every time we are
live which we tend to do every five
weeks four out of five weeks I want you
to get those notifications so that you
know that we're live so that you know
that you can participate in the live
show and again if you're not able to be
here for a live broadcast we do provide
this on demand and on cable TV and we'd
love to have you participate you get
lots of names so far fantastic all right
keep those coming in throughout the
course of the show there is no limit
just get your ballot in it's one ballot
per person and all you have to do is
just message us where you're watching
from that you'd like to win one of those
fitness trackers and we will
allow you to participate in that draw
later on in the show yep all right so
let's get into it first of all this week
well last
last week I received my pine Book Pro
yes you did ANSI edition yes what is an
see when you kind of get agitated and
know it's a keyboard it's like the u.s.
style keyboard yes that's exactly right
so an T essentially means it's verb
eight it's like it's a synonym
synonym a synonym for us keyboard layout
so when you think about a u.s. keyboard
layout
you've got the slash and the right spawn
you've got everything where you expect
it to be if you're Canadian us it's like
the u.s. 1:04 keyboard if you think
about an iso keyboard that's kind of UK
yeah like overseas for us and so their
layout is completely different so we
found the iso layout to be really
problematic here in canada right yeah
keys aren't where you want them to be
you got a push control function tab alt
backspace backspace exclamation point in
order to do an apostrophe like it's just
ridiculous it doesn't make any sense no
and so pine sixty-four heard the cry of
the Western world and said you know what
we're gonna bring out the u.s. keyboard
layout on our next iteration of the pine
book the pine book pro is going to be
available in both ISO and ANSI keyboard
layouts and this makes me very very
happy so let's get a look at the
unboxing here so you can see that my box
in fact says ANSI that is again the u.s.
keyboard layout you guys ready for this
let's get into the box let's take a look
our first look at the pine Book Pro ANSI
edition here we go
it's another box Wow a box inside a box
yes lefting nesting doll yes we've got
okay you ready for the next box here we
go we go reddish cross what is ready for
my thing not a box oh that would be
really nice if it was not a box maybe we
could actually get a hopper oh oh we've
got some film and paper yes we've got
some packing foam we've got a oh look at
that a love letter from pine sixty-four
nice yeah my wife will be jealous um
telling us all about it let's actually
get a look at the pine Book Pro this has
got to be it that doesn't look like a
box to me I feel like we need some epic
music or something oh yes there we go
that's better uh-oh nothing else in
there okay no other boxes yep all right
I've got my power supply that came with
it and let's take a look here this is
now I ordered the US ok our supply so
this is just kind of oh that's on and
it's a it is 5 volt 3 amp and as you can
see it's barrel and not it's not USB see
like the like the Raspberry Pi for
alright here we go
look at that beautiful that's sleek that
is a magnesium alloy shell okay so this
is like a metal body and we've got the
micro SD we've got a headphone jack and
USB 2.0 right there on the side ok
flipping around to the other side we've
got the barrel input for the power we've
got USB 3 and USB type-c which can be
video output it can be power whatever
you like look at how thin a stream is
that oh you're asking measure this you
can see it's just so thin and so it's
like a MacBook Air but this ok I want to
tell you this is 200 bucks that's
amazing there you are that's a bigger
cup of water on mine
there's the keyboard right there so
there's at the end look at the end the
slash key it's in the right spot
is also the app you can see the keyboard
layout is what you would expect here in
Canada the United States and that is the
pine Book Pro so looking at the
specifications it's a 2 gigahertz
rockchip rk3288 60 mp4 GPU it's got four
gigs of ram a 1080p IPS panel even
though it's so sleek and so so thin it's
got that nice monitor on there it's got
it comes with a 64 gigabyte emmc which
is upgradable if you want to add a
little bit extra storage to that system
and speaking of adding extra storage we
need to be able to get into that that
chassis of the pine Book Pro right
because not only can you upgrade the
emmc but remember what I said the SOC is
the same as the ROK pro 64 well really
the computer is the same as the ROK pro
64 in a lot of ways including PCI
Express really what I express inside
that little tiny thin notebook and
because of that we can actually buy a $7
adapter that will allow us to install an
MDOT 2 so I can install an nvme MDOT two
storage drive so that means I could put
up to 2 terabytes of storage that has no
moving parts generates a very little
heat and is able to give me 2 terabytes
of storage in my pine Book Pro that's
animation we get it should we open this
thing up I'm gonna left so on the
underside you see 10 screws seems
ownerís you know you've gotta open it up
with 10 screws but we can speed that up
for the sake of TV and get into this
thing a little bit quicker but
understand that's gonna give us access
to the internal components this is a
hackable laptop it is built to be
something that we can modify ourselves
that's the key thing with the pine Book
Pro but remember it's only $200 u.s. to
buy this it's available from Pine 64 and
they make this specifically to be a
hackable Linux
laptop first time into it let's get in
there just want to be careful that I
don't break anything but there we go be
mindful that the speakers are attached
to the bottom panel there are stereo
speakers so be careful as you're pulling
this up you don't want to pull on that
wire see that so just kind of safely and
carefully peel that back and there you
see the soc so that is the plastic
component of the chassis you can see how
there is some plastic there I'm gonna
put these speakers back before I get too
far ahead because I don't want to
accidentally put them in the wrong spot
but let's get a quick close-up of that
that SOC the the main board we'll call
it of the of the pine Book Pro this
again is the ANSI Edition yep and under
this little flap of tape we have this is
what I was telling you about Jeff this
is PCI Express x4 but it looks a little
bit different yeah so that's why you
need that adapter my storage my hard
drive is a 64 gig emmc now out be
careful I just cut myself there are some
sharp points within the case so just be
careful of that sorry about that folks
but see that emmc it just goes right on
there you can upgrade that it's just a
standard emmc there's no proprietary
part here you can just buy a 128 gig if
you want to upgrade that and because
it's an emmc you can pull that out you
can flash any distro onto that card and
be able to boot up your pine book pro
but I want to tell you something else
remember hope remember how I showed you
that there is a micro SD port on the
side yes oh that's great because you can
import photos from your camera sure okay
yeah however it's also bootable really
yes think about that for a second so the
boot order is micro SD and then emmc
so even with that emmc card in there you
can flash any distro for the pine book
pro to your micro SD card and boot it up
you can try it out I know how you like
it you can set it up the way you like it
and then you can wipe it and reflash and
install
different distro and then booted up from
a microSD card and you never have to
open up the chassis then once you've
decided the one that you really love and
there are a growing number of distros
available for the pine Book Pro once you
find the one that you love you can flash
that emmc card and that's the one that
you're booting from when there's no
micro sd in the slot like it but a
bootable microsd you have 5 micro sd Z
you can just put like you can put Debian
on one it comes with Debian
pre-installed on that mic on that emmc
that I showed you
so that has Debian stretch installed on
it ready to go you can boot it up and
start working but you can put Manjaro on
there you can put a boon to on another
one and you can boot from them and try
them out and and give it a try without
any risk to the actual built-in emmc so
if you intend to do that if you want to
flash your emmc make sure when you order
your Pine Book Pro from Pine 64 org that
you also buy an emmc 2 USB adapter right
ok that's important so just keep that in
mind what else might you want to add to
your cart I would say probably that MDOT
to adapter for the PCI Express 4 yep I'd
say that would be a good purchase throw
that on there if you think that you're
gonna be doing that I think I'm
definitely gonna pick up one of those
sure that I can throw 1 terabyte or 2
terabyte EMS or I keep saying that MDOT
2 on onto the into the Pine Book Pro
that's gonna give me storage so that's
not bootable but that is a storage hard
drive right so I can mount my home
folder for example to that m2 and save
all like have a terabyte worth of home
folder storage that's how do you like
that right that is so awesome we're
gonna take a really quick break but I
have my pine Book Pro set up here I
mentioned that it has USB C video output
I'm gonna be utilizing that to be able
to show you the screen and actually walk
you through the integrated OS the debian
OS that comes with this pine both pro
right after this
welcome back this is category five
technology TV we're looking at the pine
book pro and I've got the ANSI Edition
that means that it has a u.s. keyboard
layout and there is also the ISO Edition
available for you at Pine sixty-four org
so make sure as you're checking out that
you that you select the one that is the
keyboard layout that you want if you're
in Canada in the US
you probably want the u.s. keyboard
layout and that is called ANSI a and s I
so I want to take a quick boo before we
get into the news tonight at the actual
interface the emmc comes with debian
stretch pre-installed and now while I'm
not booting from the MF C because I
wanted to really experience kind of
different distros and things so I
installed that same distro downloadable
off of their website onto a micro SD
card and here we go so this is what it
looks like so what I'm gonna do I just
want to make sure actually I'm gonna
share the same I'm gonna set the same
screen so that you guys can see what I
see it's on dual screen so I'm going to
instead set this to mirror so what I'm
seeing on my screen is I'm gonna drag
this over for you so that you can see
because it's actually operating as two
monitors okay so on my screen here I'm
gonna check that checkbox that's set and
so this is over USB C so it actually has
a video output and I've selected to show
the same thing on both screens so
presumably if I hit apply this is it
really awkward because that screen is
actually not a real screen there we go
okay so keep this configuration and now
we can both see the exact same screen so
you and I are looking at the same screen
here so that's USB C output and that's
important to note and I wanted you to
see that because if you plug that USB C
into like the HDMI of your TV you'll be
like well why is it not showing the same
thing you need to bring up the display
the monitor preferences and select that
you want it to be the same setting to
have the dual screen it will put it on
two different screens duals
it is a dual screen setup yeah so all
I've done is I've bought for six bucks
off of Amazon just a USB C to HDMI
adapter it's just a cable it's really
really cheap cheerful and it makes it
work so as you can see I'm able to
stream live the the screen just as I see
it and it's working absolutely
flawlessly so this is the default de
facto distro and this is debbie and
stretch and has basically everything
that you need to get up and going so
let's see what we've got so under
accessories I've got leafpad text editor
vim text editor for you hackers out
there graphics it comes with not a whole
lot actually we probably want to install
the GNU image manipulation program we've
talked about that on the show Internet
we've got chromium and Firefox because
apparently you need both hex chat will
get you into IRC office let's see what
we have LibreOffice perfect so you've
got your yeah that's like writer and so
Microsoft Office equivalent for Linux
sound and video we've got oh now I
installed cheese because I wanted to
point out that we actually have a
built-in webcam on this system so this
is a 1080p webcam and even though with
cheese booted here so this is gonna
presumably there we go you can see that
the the framerate is really really poor
right right there I am but but it does
work really quite well and the picture
looks pretty good let's take a quick is
that just a setting as to why it's so
low well I don't know yeah I think what
we're gonna find is that with something
like the pine Book Pro and I think this
is important to note and maybe this is
something I should have mentioned right
off the top what it is this is let's
consider it experimental let's consider
this something that is bleeding edge and
mind-blowing yeah let's say if you are a
Linux lover if you love to tinker this
might be a notebook for you yeah because
probably gonna run into little issues
like that did you see the countdown 1 2
3 2 1 and it was like all gibberish so
there's something wrong there and I'm
gonna probably have to figure that out
if I if I care I kind of thought it was
a cool feature it looks like a flash
it's like 3 2 1 to prepare this like
scream flash it's like okay but it
didn't really look like a 3 do that it
was like gibberish
but reminds me of like the first ever
episode thanks Asha that's exactly what
this looks like but I mean there is a
webcam yes big deal so there's there's a
community that is involved in all Pine
64 products and that's a big part of
this is that you can get into the
community and say hey my webcam seems a
little bit choppy or maybe the cheese is
having some weird issues well you can
get into the the chat the and that's on
IRC through hex chat or you can get into
the forums and talk to them about that
and get some help we've got media
players we've got your standard kind of
Linux system tools speaking of let's
bring up like system monitor and let's
just kind of see what this looks like
hold on for a second so this is a two
hundred dollar Linux notebook computer
that's this thin that's a that has no
moving parts so if I can I don't know if
you can really get your head around that
at home but when this is sitting on my
lap there's no fan noise yep there's
very little heat and a little bit of
heat off of the one side where the soc
is that's the system-on-chip to see what
we would call a CPU yeah there's a
little bit of heat there but it's
dissipated quite well but really like
there's no noise coming off so you don't
have any of those moving parts that you
do on a normal traditional laptop so
what have I been using this for well
it's not a super powerful laptop but
it's quite good as far as getting on the
internet it's a it's a single board
computer built into a laptop chassis
essentially but it's got a great
keyboard now it's got a nice touchpad
you've got to update the touchpad
firmware make sure you do that right out
the gate there's some updates that you
need to install you'll find out more
about that in the pine 64 forums very
very important for for the sensitivity
and accuracy of that but we've got
or gigs of ram and what i've been using
this for is i use it as a terminal for
my main computers so if you understand
that's already how I work
I don't like to carry a big workstation
of a laptop they call it a portable
workstation I used to do that I used to
buy the the $1700 portable workstation
that I would do my video production on
and it was this thick and it had big
honkin fans in it or you might have like
one of those big república gamer laptops
that are like this you know the same
thing because you want all that power
the way I work now as a video producer
is I have a honkin server that honkin
server has all the power in the world
that I'll ever need and then I use any
terminal to be able to connect into it
and bring up its screen so on this $200
notebook computer that weighs a feather
weight I'm sitting in a coffee shop on
their Wi-Fi VPN into my studio and I'm
doing video editing on my screen on a
seven thousand dollar production system
oh you know what I mean yeah okay so
this becomes a terminal so it's
brilliant for that it's proven itself to
be brilliant for that but at the same
time it's also great without that
capability to just use it as web surfing
use it for for your standard like
everything's online these days if you're
using Google Drive you probably have a
lot of your stuff just right in there so
let's get a quick boo at this system
itself because I mean though the real
question is okay if I'm not using it
connected to a big powerful system is it
still gonna work as a pretty decent
computer one of the things that you're
gonna notice is down here at the bottom
right it's jumping around between four
hundred and eight megahertz to one point
four two gigahertz and so on it's
jumping all over the place because it's
selecting the processor frequency based
on my usage so it's getting faster and
it's giving more power taking more juice
from the 10,000 milliamp hour battery
and based on my requirements right but
if I'm not really doing much if it's
idling it'll just clock itself down to
four
eight megahertz which is going to use
very very little power yeah presumably
all right so I'm just gonna cancel out
of that guy and let's jump onto YouTube
because that's probably you know I don't
know about you but if things are not
playing well on YouTube then that's a
real that's a write-off for me I want
videos on YouTube to work really really
well right that's a key thing so fairly
quick yeah loads okay so I mean
everything looks good and I'm just doing
this with the touchpad so I'm doing
multi-touch right now so as I scroll I'm
using two fingers to scroll that's how I
do it so and you can if you want you can
go over to the scroll bar and click and
pull down but I like to just use
multi-touch it's just a little bit
quicker so if I wanted to click on any
of these videos so let's go to something
that's fairly current let's go to our
ESET video here and there's an ad that's
playing so it jumped up real quick looks
really good real smooth and skip the ads
it's switched to eighteen over nine how
do you like that oh it looks like I've
already clicked on this video so let's
reverse again using multi-touch to
rewind there I double tapped on the
scroll bar and then can scroll there you
go look so yeah let's fullscreen it see
if it cats out no looks good everything
is looking pretty good there so sound is
a little bit tinny as you can expect
from a lap like a low priced laptop but
I want to be clear when I when I say
that that it it has bluetooth five okay
think about that for a second so you got
a Bluetooth speaker externally and you
can you can connect this to your
Bluetooth speaker phones yeah yeah
absolutely so so those speakers that are
a little bit tinny you saw them when I
unbox or when I opened it up just a
little little tiny speakers you can
either use the headphone jack there is
that over here or you can use bluetooth
headphones bluetooth speakers and you're
gonna get much better sound as well oh
cool so that's really really nice neat I
have to say 200 bucks oh it's been a
dream like just like I've been using
I've been using a little of a Fink pad
and it's beautiful but it is it's big
and heavy clunky and and it's a nice
notebook but it feels heavy on my lap
and this thing just feels like a feather
like it's just there's nothing to it
it's so thin it's so lightweight and
just and the battery lasts it seems
forever and I just love using it it's
not so expensive that you would be like
so anxious if you take it somewhere you
know take it I mean I'm looking at this
I'm going you know what our oldest son
is going into high school next year oh
yes this would be a great computer for
him really for schooling sure yeah if he
can see the thing with education and
it's a sad place right now in the
Canadian education system is that they
don't teach skills they teach software
that's true and so when you go to school
when you pay to go to college you're
paying to learn Microsoft Office that is
not the skill sets that so so to
translate that from microsoft office -
libreoffice
can be a challenge so I'll give you that
one little caveat and it's and that is a
problem but that's a problem in the
education sector that's not a problem
with this device and I think if we have
a good troubleshooting mind and and
maybe a father who is willing to take
the time to to help their son and and
show them okay well yeah in in Microsoft
Word it's like that but in libreoffice
it's like this it's similar it's very
very close but it's a little bit
different but see we have a dual boot
system yeah both Linux and windows yeah
and all windows I also have Microsoft
Office and Libre okay so they use both
but for a lot of their school it's all
on Google Docs
that's really so this is like so
consider this like so you say 200 bucks
oh well that's about the price of a good
high-end Chrome
book yeah right but this is full Linux
yeah I install Debian Linux on this you
can install Manjaro or Ubuntu and it's
the full operating system
anything that's in synaptic package
manager I installed cheese I mentioned
wanting to install the GNU image
manipulation program right so what am I
gonna do it's just like you would on
your on your Linux machine bring up
synaptic package manager' that's where I
am on Debian anyways and do a search and
type in gimp and guess what we're gonna
find no guesses GIMP there it is right
so I can just install it just because
it's Linux it's not a Chromebook right
so it's like the price of a Chromebook a
good high-end one but it's full Linux I
love that but do keep in mind there are
some like development caveat so you've
got to be willing to work those out yep
right now there are a little bit of
things that are like for a novice user
might drive them nuts for someone like
myself I love it and I can forgive those
things things like if I close the lid
right now when it goes to sleep and I
open it and push the power button it
won't wake up well that's a problem
they're working on it it'll be fixed but
right now I just know don't close the
lid boots
it boots so darn fast that if I shut it
down and turn it back on again I don't I
don't care yeah it doesn't affect me but
you so you learn these little quirks
about it because it is a very new system
and it's a very new it's an entirely new
realm for Linux notebooks I mean this is
an SOC a single-board computer built
into a beautiful laptop chassis and
you've got access to a full Debian or
any compatible Linux distro on that
system how cool is that
no for somebody who's going hey I'd be
open to this yeah but what happens if I
just mess something up
well then just wipe your SD card and
read and we flash like sure that's the
great part I mean if you're doing
something on your Windows machine and
you mess it up it's like oh my goodness
now for minutes yeah now because this
has the extra micro SD for booting yeah
could you put say like retropie on that
my crusty and boot up a great question
on a micro SD well you'd have to have a
rock 64 pine book 64 compatible version
of retropie so yeah what you would need
to do I think would be instead to take
the approach of installing debian and
then installing retropie on top of that
a little bit different I don't think
there's anyone doing a retro pie gaming
system for the rock for the pine book
pro yet okay but I'm not entirely
certain of that it's just a distro it's
a it's a Debian based or a boon to based
distro so it could be done yeah it's
just I don't know if anyone's doing
every marriage right said that there is
an update PvP was updated so that when
he closes his lid wait a bit reopen it
yeah the power button and it works fine
yeah probably as I say people are like
folks in the community are working on it
and you can jump into the chat the the
forum and they'll tell you all about
where where it's at I've had a strange
thing where it reboots once in a while
but I found if I if I hard set the
frequency of the CPU it doesn't do it
anymore
ah and we've seen tonight that it didn't
do it as well and I didn't change that
setting so I think one of the updates
have just simply fixed that no you know
would be interesting and let me know if
this is slightly off base okay to take
the rock pro 64 that's the single board
computer version of this yeah and run a
giggle score against this and see if
this compares yeah they should be there
the same SOC either the same Ram right
but just because there's a few other
components out of it I'd be interested
to see how it plays out mmm right yeah
we could do that sure I think that'd be
interesting yeah anybody in the
community want to do that give it a go
run a giggle score on a pine Book Pro
we are this week we've looked at the
ANSI keyboard edition and while the ISO
version came out late 2019 the ANSI
version just came out in early 2020 and
so this is like the brand-new creme de
la creme for American and Canadian users
and I'm very very pleased with it very
impressed and this could be a daily
driver absolutely especially because the
video production I can do with a remote
connection to my main server which has
Windows 10 and and my video production
suite which is DaVinci Resolve so so
this is like this is a brilliant little
terminal for me yeah so check it out
pine sixty-four dot org in the meantime
Sasha if you are ready we're gonna jump
right over to your news room excellent
mm-hmm here's what's coming up in the
category five TV newsroom some of the
biggest Call of Duty overwatch and heard
some eSport leaves will be streamed
exclusively on YouTube
rocket League is ending support for
Linux and steamos we're in an Antarctica
frenzy as Google Earth as a Google Earth
user has found a 2,000 foot structure
emerging from the snow and sometimes
free isn't actually free at all it's
been revealed that avast Free Antivirus
is tracking users online behavior and
mining data stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
this is the category 5 dot TV newsroom
covering the week's top texture with a
slight linux bias
- I recommend joining this week by Jeff
Weston and Robbie Ferguson all right
some quick honourable mentions this week
the good old 3d BCD database service
that and its services will be shut down
on March 31st 2020 now there are dozens
of applications that make it easy to rip
a music CD to your computer saving
digital versions of the tracks as mp3 or
WAV or flack or even other audio files
but one of the key services many of
those applications rely on is set to
shut down at the end of March free DB is
a free online database of track listings
of millions of CDs without this type of
database you'd either end up having to
have a bunch of nameless files or you'd
have to manually type in the album names
the artist info the song titles and
other data into your computer every time
you rip a CD while free DB isn't the
only service of its type it's been one
of the most prominent services providing
track listing data for nearly two
decades free DB data was originally
based on information from the CD DB data
service which eventually became
proprietary software and prohibited lice
unlicensed applications from using the
data so free DB Wow
free DB c d DB it all runs together
doesn't it but they are a free service
operated under a GPL license and it now
consists of user generated data so
service company magics acquired free DB
in 2006 and continued to support the
free service until now it's unclear why
magics has decided to pull the plug
after all of these years fortunately
there's an alternative online music
database called musicbrainz that's
operated under a Creative Commons
license that effectively places the data
into the public domain which means it
should continue to work with third-party
software indefinitely no matter what
but if you're using an old CD ripping
service or music management software
that only supports free DB it may be
time to look for some kind of
alternative in an odd turn of events
Microsoft has had to push out an update
for Windows 7
despite the operating system reaching
end of support because they need to fix
a bug that they introduced earlier this
month Microsoft ended support for
Windows 7 and released final public
security updates for computers still
running the over a decade old OS however
that final update included the addition
of a bug that affects desktop wallpapers
causing wallpapers set to stretch mode
to display as a black screen
organizations who wish to continue using
Windows 7 beyond the end of support date
must pay for extended security updates
in other words Microsoft ended support
for Windows 7 by introducing a bug that
companies would have to pay them to fix
initially Microsoft said it was
developing a fix that they would roll
out to those who purchased extended
support however they've since caved
they've changed their minds and patched
at the patches being made available to
everybody running Windows 7 and Windows
Server 2008 r2 sp1 which was also
affected finally at FOSDEM this week
pine 64 have announced what they are up
to for the first half of 2020 during
this time the company hopes to review
the status of the pine phone and pine
time release the pine tab early adopter
Edition and make good on their promises
to deliver the upgrade kit for the
original pine book also rolled over from
last week's to-do list at last week's
last year's to-do list they're falling a
little further behind than just one-week
pine 64 is releasing a new so pine
compute module that features a neural
processing unit the so edge is a three
top module that can be paired with the
so pine baseboard or USB 3.0 and PCI
Express adapters for development
and it can even be mixed with previous
gen a 64 modules on the cluster board
which allows clustering of up to seven
compute modules it can connect to a
single board computer such as The Rock
Pro 64 or a regular PC with a simple PCI
Express riser card now having an
encountered issues with the Sony camera
implementation and with the big devices
that they've been releasing like the
pine Book Pro and the pine phone in the
works in q4 2019 the cube camera got put
on the back burner but pine 64 also
assures us that they are once again
working on that they're gonna need to
make some modifications to the specs
though and we're gonna learn more about
that in pine 64's february community
update which is going to be posted on
February 15th so that's a lot of stuff
that has been rolled over from 2019 into
2020 which is going to keep them very
busy but at this point pine 64 is also
wanting to announce things that they are
confident they're going to be able to
deliver early May 2020
so anything that's going to be released
in the first couple of quarters this
year it's been a while since pine 64 has
announced a new single board computer
and in fact with all of the other
devices that they've been bringing out
some users have even questioned if
they're going to be getting out of the
SBC industry altogether but that is not
the case
pine 64 has announced the new hardrock
64 the hardrock 64 features the same SP
SOC it's the RK $33.99 hexa core SOC
that you find in the pine book pro and
the ROK pro 64 it's got two USB three
two USB to ports Wi-Fi AC bluetooth 5.0
gig Ethernet and unlike the Raspberry Pi
4 which only offers microSD for storage
the hardrock 64 includes the MMC also
the contrast also by contrast the
hardrock 64 has a barrel jack for power
and no USB see like the raspberry pi 6
raspberry pi 4 it comes in three
different Ram sizes there's one gigabyte
two gigabytes and four gigabytes the
three implementations of the hardrock 64
will be available at around $35 $45 and
$55 respectively the board is gonna run
Rock pro 64 OS images and with a small
tweak it should even be able to run most
of the pine book pro distros as well so
if you don't need all of the rock pro 64
s functionality such as PCI Express or
USB C then this may be the perfect board
for you pine 64 hopes to have the Hard
Rock Pro Hart Rock 64
all of them start to run together they
hope to have it available for you this
April awesome let's get into the top
stories we're following this week some
of the biggest Call of Duty overwatch
and hearthstone eSports leagues will be
streamed exclusively on YouTube the deal
seen is a big win for the platform while
which has found it hard to compete with
the game streamer twitch it's part of a
deal that the site's
signed with Activision Blizzard the
company which runs the league's twitch
exclusively streamed for the first two
seasons of overwatch league and is seen
as the go-to destination for live gaming
for sure so Neil Ryan head of gaming at
Google cloud says quote we've worked
closely with Activision Blizzard for the
past few years across mobile titles to
boost its analytics capabilities and
overall player experience we're excited
to now expand our relationship and help
power one of the largest and most
renowned game developers in the world
end quote
despite being the largest video site in
the world YouTube has historically
struggled to compete with sites like
twitch but in the last few months the
platform has been making some
high-profile moves
poaching a number of high profile twitch
streamers as a part of the deal the
search giant's cloud platform will power
all of Activision Blizzard's game
hosting and other technical needs google
cloud will also host
Activision Blizzard's entire library of
games that's a quite a change in in the
landscape of video game play on online
it is twitch has always been like that's
where you go for your gameplay well yeah
and I mean the fact that they've now
just secured those three games makes me
wonder could this either force twitch to
adapt or put them on me be the end yeah
like if YouTube can start pulling away
from twitch and saying you know we've
got this and if they can show that hey
we've done it better right then other
twitch streamers are gonna go you know
what I can go here now what's
interesting there was it talked about
the fact that they pulled some of the
high profile twitch streamers so I'm
wondering if there's a different
compensation rate versus what you would
normally get on youtube it's a really
weird landscape though because we can't
produce video on YouTube for children
correct and so because of that the so
the games are gonna have to be adults
centric or at least the the to be a
commentary to be honest with most of
these they already are yeah so so what
we're gonna see so understand what that
means is that okay so the YouTube game
like the the community of gamers on
YouTube is gonna grow into an adult
centric video service right so foul
language
probably some not necessarily yeah
necessarily I mean you're you're gonna
get some of it for sure mm-hm but I mean
you look at some of those older
youtubers like dantdm who's been around
forever
yeah but how is he doing with youtube
right now as far as I know he's still
doing videos my kids are watching him
all the time how are the ads looking I
haven't questioned notice anything I
don't know I'd have to check on on Dan
and see how things are going but to see
the thing is is that as soon as Copic
amen it really impacted streamers who
has like Dan has always been very sick
he's been very centric on children and
children's entertainment yes and because
of that that will impact his revenue
because under Coppa he is not a
loud to generate revenue based on
children viewing his stream so he would
have to generate adult centric videos in
order to generate any revenue now I mean
at the end of the day though YouTube
isn't gonna know whether it's me on my
phone watching or my kids on my phone
but even if right regardless of Dan
can't take that risk
no I hear you but I mean how does that
force the content to change because dan
has to select so we're talking about
dantdm here yeah he has to select when
he creates a video that this is created
for children that the content is
appealing to children and if he selects
that he is not allowed to monetize it so
whether it's you or whether it's a child
watching it there are no ads that are
monetizing it for him so he's not me
he's not making any money off of those
videos it just says it's for adults
somebody came in too but if a child is
Mithen he's taking a risk because it's
not and they could shut him down very
very quickly right for right okay and
this is a legal issue it'll be
interesting to see with with this switch
then because you're right a lot of the
viewers are teens I mean that I mean
when it comes to teen Plus is okay well
then they're full yeah fine yeah but as
soon as any anyone under 13 is watching
that that has to be selected by the
streamer right and if it is selected by
the streamer we're not allowed to
monetize it so that I mean with a switch
from twitch to youtube I don't think
it's gonna have much of an impact
because all of those games at the end of
the day when you look at the was that ER
T rating or whatever yes but but right
now on Twitch
nobody's monitoring Coppa hasn't cracked
down on twitch so those those streamers
are still making money off of the 10
year olds which I I'm not saying whether
I agree or don't agree I'm just saying
that so though that is going to be a
strange shift because in oh in order to
monetize they have to specifically make
their programming for 13 plus they
cannot create programming that is
appealing to 10 year olds right to 11
year olds to 12 year olds but the
difference between a 10 year old and a
third
you're not really that that's what I'm
saying that's what I'm saying ah I guess
I'm just viewing it from a different
lens than you listen I can say I'm
gearing it to 13 year olds at a 15 year
old watch it so be it no time here for
13 because they're law will crack down
on you with that out of date it's so
weird but but if that's the case I mean
how many kids do you like I mean I
remember getting movies rented that were
18 eh
no sorry are are you know church boy
like 14 so like you can't stop we're
yeah we're not gonna be able to solve
that moment that cannot account for your
crimes
yeah I think this is fine I don't think
they're gonna notice an issue I really
don't I think you're gonna be able to
stream on YouTube and I think we'll be
fine
we'll see okay we'll be them bring you a
streamer driver are you a game streamer
on Twitch what are your opinions let us
know comment below yeah please
just three and a bit years after it
debuted on the platform rocket League is
ending support for Linux and steamos
psionics the development team behind the
popular cars meets football game
announced the end of Mac OS and Linux
support in a short statement posted on
their website they say quote as we
continue to upgrade rock rocket League
with new technologies it is no longer
viable for us to maintain support for
the Mac OS and Linux Linux or steam OS
platforms as a result the patch for the
OS and the Linux versions of the game
will be in March this update will
disable online functionality such as
in-game purchases for players on Mac OS
and Linux but offline features including
local matches and split-screen play will
still be accessible
end quote last year's psionics
was acquired by Epic Games who announced
plans to stop selling the hit game on
Steam though without impacting players
who had already purchased it but it's
not all bad news if you already own the
game you can continue to play it on
Linux without any limitations until the
March update arrives after this you can
also continue to play it just without
any of the online capabilities don't
forget that if you bought rocket League
for Linux on Steam you can still access
full functionality including online play
by installing it on a computer running a
supported version of Windows not an
ideal solution but at least you don't
totally lose your purchase burn Linux
users what I agree however how many avid
gamers are Linux users all of them yes I
like to believe but you don't see people
using Linux for the purposes of gaming
maybe it's true maybe that's part of
this too is that ok my kids play that on
the switch rocket league is like the
Nintendo switch all the way now right
now yeah yeah I'd say the switch is
where it's at so I will say that we had
to install window windows on early for
gaming because of gaming because you got
the VR headset and everything yeah yeah
that makes sense
that's why I have Windows on my computer
like I have steam with my 300 games on
it yeah fair enough and so for that
reason I need nails can I have access to
your account 100 games I have 3 games I
sign up for steam with an initially
chemo
after the show in the credits watch for
we're gonna have Geoff's I don't think
this is such a big deal I mean do you
typically don't see gamers running on
Linux and here's the thing I wish that
it was a big deal I wish that there was
more of a wave toward Linux sure face
yeah jari but you're looking at it in
the currents in the current like this is
now yep not a lot of gamers on Linux ok
so think about this well the products
already on Linux
let's keep supporting it and let's
continue supporting Linux as a gaming
platform because it's a great gaming
platform if there's theme OS right
but from a monetary standpoint they're
finding that the return on investment
for having programmers that will deal
with it on a linux base is not viable on
the long-term based on subscribership
then it totally makes sense it's a
business decision I can't I can't fault
somebody for that I don't know I feel
like it's a build it and they will come
short of situations I'm sure they're
they're not kevin costner and we're not
dealing with ghosts
all i care is that Unreal Tournament
runs on Linux I don't care about
anything else in this entire world yeah
yeah but that's how you know that's
that's it's unfortunate that me they're
not investing in Linux anymore but it
doesn't surprise me
mm-hmm I mean it's not like you go no
breaks my heart Jack yeah I still I wish
that I could choose a different
operating system but I need Windows to
play my games I need okay
I need my cosa dual booting is a dual
booting for the win
so Windows 10 for gaming Linux for
everything else everything else but it
doesn't have to be that way game
developers need to realize we could just
have Linux and then make this world a
better place
DaVinci Resolve is on Linux so just
bring bring rocket leak back okay we've
gotta take a quick break more of this
week's top tech news tech stories are
coming up don't go anywhere
you
Antartica friends is Google and Google
Earth user has found a 2,000 foot
structure emerging from the smell Google
Earth users have claimed for years that
there are mysteries lying beneath the
Antarctica ice and now Google uses their
Google Earth user mr. FB be 333 thinks
he may have discovered a gigantic
building in Antarctica in footage shared
a couple of weeks back he zooms in on
the location to find what seems like a
huge square emerging from the ice the
narrator explains quote from the top to
bottom it's nearly 2,000 feet
unbelievable I didn't think it was that
big it's six football fields long that's
massive it's very large very symmetrical
and looks like a building this could be
a random piece of ice I suppose it is
kind of offshore maybe it's some sort of
building but that is huge end quote
well many are speculating what the shape
could be others are less convinced
suggesting it was nothing more than an
unusual shaped block of ice Antarctica
is often the center of conspiracy
theories it was so-called truth seekers
believing that beneath the layer of snow
and ice lies remnants of everything from
ancient civilizations to Nazi bases back
in August another Google Earth user
believed that they had spotted a
gigantic statue of a face and just two
weeks ago one person claimed to have
spotted a huge two mile long ancient
wall rising above the ice the so called
monolith was compared to a surat a
massive structure built in ancient
Mesopotamia and Iran isn't that cool
that we live in a time right now that we
as like just average users at home can
look from the satellite basically down
on the area like like that's sci-fi from
the 80s right there yeah okay but here's
what I have to say about this and I I
don't know whether or not these
structures actually exist but to me it's
reminiscent of like gazing at the clouds
and being like I see
I hippopotamus I don't know it looks
pretty much like a structure to me it
could be a structure it could be great
Google Earth murder mystery no never
heard about the doc with the blood
splatter and the trail into the water
no and everybody was freaking out about
this murder scene you know about this
yes this happened probably five six
years ago and everybody was freaking out
that they had that Google Earth had
taken a snapshot of a murder scene
and because you see the doc you see the
the trail of blood to the water this has
gotten really morbid right but on that
one turns out yeah it was a guy with his
dog and the dog was jumping in the water
running around running across the dock
and it was the wet dock and I made it
look like blood so the point of this is
just cuz you see it on Google Earth
doesn't mean it is what you think it is
that's true but there's not a whole lot
of action going on in Antarctica it
doesn't matter you can't look at
something as a topographical view it's a
2,000 feet tall look at that it's the
it's actually the shadow of a penguin
right like come on I will say I spend
some time in Google Earth on my VR like
if I sometime I mean on the daily
because I love to travel around and just
see places so I now need to go to
Antarctica because I haven't I just I
mean I don't first off it's Antarctica
so no matter where where you are in the
world at the end of the not the world
but like this time of year you're always
gonna have the Sun at a very horizontal
angle so it's gonna create different
shot that's why that penguin looks like
a giant exactly yeah I'm not buying it I
don't think so I don't think it's a
2,000 foot structure the amount of
planes it's not gonna happen
I think the only valid use for Google
Earth is to see where viewers are
watching from right now right and and so
by clicking on to map cat5 TV
we can start to see just outside of the
royal town of Sutton Coldfield we've got
viewers and we should be able to zoom
all over the place yeah
viewers all where are we right now no
you're quite zoomed in I know
oh there's Denmark yeah we know Denmark
so this is this is a valid use for do we
maybe we can find our viewers in
Antarctica oh it's gonna I'm Mary
watching from a 2,000 foot structure
yeah oh we're yeah there's somebody in
Iceland no no listen to you okay I'm
trying to I'm trying to circumnavigate
here and it doesn't it's in live mode so
it doesn't like interactivity but hey
map cat5 TV alright Jeff doesn't buy it
is it a penguin or is it a structure
it's that's the question comment below
it turns out free security solutions may
come at the cost of all of your browsing
data avast Free Antivirus tracker
tracker tracks users online behavior and
minds the data for companies like
Microsoft Pepsi and Google Windows users
should know by now that you're walking
into a field of landmines if you run
your computer without protection from
malware so most people use antivirus
software to make sure that they get some
much-needed privacy and security
protections while using their computers
online and many to the tune of about a
half billion users turn to free
antivirus products thinking that there's
no reason to pay for protection since
there are programs available for free
however free security Suites can
sometimes hoard your browsing data and
other details and sell them to third
parties this is the case with the
popular free antivirus from Avast which
is putting the privacy of around 400
million people at risk at a time when
high profile tech executives are calling
on governments to impose more stringent
privacy rules there is nothing like
another reminder that everyone is
fighting to get a hold of your habits
preferences and pretty much any other
data that can be used by advertisers to
target you more easily according to a
joint investigation by vice and PC Mag
that involves leaked contracts and other
company company documents Avast along
with its AVG subsidiary have been
keeping track of what users did online
while using the free software they
distribute the scheme involves jumpshot
a company that provides insights into
consumers online journeys by measuring
every search click and buy across 1,600
categories from more than 150 sites
including Amazon Google Netflix and
Walmart end quote
installing avast's free antivirus
automatically adds in a browser
extension that collects information on
your internet activity and sends it to
jump shot
packed and tagged with the unique
identifier Avast data collection
includes searches on Google and Google
Maps YouTube videos LinkedIn searches
and profile visits and even what users
view on adult websites this gets sent to
jump shots customers like Google
Microsoft
Pepsi Sephora Home Depot Yelp
Intuit and many others Avast says it
doesn't track any sensitive information
like personal identification phone
numbers or email the company also
insists that as of july 2019
they've begun implementing an explicit
opt in choice for all new downloads of
their AV and are now prompting existing
free users to make an opt-in or opt-out
choice a process which they claim will
be completed in February 2020 ok opt in
like do you like yes yes yes yes ok I'm
installing this free antivirus
yes yes yes yes next next next next next
ok you just opted in yeah BAM we have
all your stuff and we're selling it to
everyone mm-hmm why does this come as a
surprise to people no it's not a
surprise Jeff it's just proven free is
never free well exactly I learned that
as a kid nothing comes for free if it's
free there's always something attached
to it has Facebook not talked as
anything they've taught us a lot Jeff so
you know what you know what I've learned
by Facebook hmm
that people just yep Jeff you're still
on Facebook yeah I am still on Facebook
it's a necessary evil but yeah I I don't
use a vast for this reason any time I
see a free virus software I go antivirus
antivirus yeah like I'm not touching it
that's why I do use subscription-based
services because when you're putting
money behind it there's a company that's
gonna actually stand behind their
product as opposed to collecting your
user data yeah but there's Kaspersky and
McAfee - sure well exactly yes but you
could also get free versions of them
okay all right but putting money on it
doesn't necessarily mean it's good but
it's much better than hey get this for
free yeah yeah because you're paying for
it somehow yeah so yeah three versions
of these products are definitely gonna
have some some caveats to them for her
I'm just wondering how long before we
see some sort of lawsuit yeah because
the interesting thing you opted in and
it's a cop-out because say Austin was
until 2000 was it 19 yeah but they've
retroactively Lee added another pop okay
I'm the guy that reads the fine print
before I sign up for something yeah
you're not you're not the average user
though I know I'm not the average Andrew
I'm just the suspicious one so many
people are doing this so many people
don't really realize what's happening
yeah
and that now you know though folks now
you know yeah big thanks to Roy W Nash
in our community of viewers for
submitting stories ass this week thanks
for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and if you appreciate
what we do become a patron at
patreon.com slash newsroom from the
category 5 kb newsroom and sasha Rickman
and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm Jeff
Weston all right do we have some names
yes we have names names stick around
we're gonna be doing a draw right after
this all right we've got your ballots in
folks and we've got your names written
down congratulations to everyone who has
qualified so far I see who do I see
skywriter 64 marsh man GF f king swiss
aghhhhh g-dog 1985 Baldrick the brave
orange man marsh man Ameri drawed bp9
mini Marsh Rd Blair Ronnie cat tell me
when I start repeating myself an M
Copland I feel like that was like
robbery so this is for I'm actually
getting steps right now so this is great
this is really good this is how I track
my steps with my fitness tracker which
you are about to win let's see here
folks here we go here
we're vp9 is why
they mentioned it in the child
congratulation hollaback words your
fitness tracker all you have to do is
private message me your shipping address
or send me an email
live at category five TV and that will
be shipped to you this week
congratulations hey if you want to
qualify for our next draw all you have
to do is email live at category five dot
TV tell us where you're watching from
and what your username is and you could
be next to win whatever it is we happen
to be giving away yes yes thank you
everybody for joining us this week
congratulations once again to our winner
bp9 do check out pine 64 org with the
new pine Book Pro ANSI Edition and we
will see you again next week take care
everybody
