here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom Microsoft's flight
simulator 2020 will launch on August
18th samsung expects 6g to launch as
early as 2028 the average costs of
charging an electronic vehicle in Canada
is just two hundred and seventy seven
dollars per year Facebook and Sony are
preparing to increase output of upcoming
gaming devices a vulnerability in
Windows DNS server can allow hackers to
run malicious code as admin on all
computers on your network and Lego and
Nintendo are making a Lego nes stick
around the full details and this week's
crypto corner are coming up this is the
category 5 go to the newsroom covering
your week stop texting with a slight
linux bias
from the newsroom I'm Becca Ferguson
after a series of clothes alpha test
Microsoft's Xbox game studios and a solo
studio announced Monday that the
next-gen Microsoft Flight Simulator 2020
will launch on August 18th pre-orders
are now live and the game will come in
three editions standard for $60 deluxe
for $90 and premium deluxe for 120
dollars with the more expensive versions
featuring more planes and handcrafted
International Airport's the last part
may come as a bit of a surprise given
that Microsoft in asobo are using assets
from bing maps and some AI magic on a
juror to essentially recreate the earth
in all of its airports still the team
must have spent some extra time on
making some of these larger airports
especially realistic and today if you
were to buy even one of these larger
airports as an add-on for Flight
Simulator X or X plane you'd easily be
spending $30 or more the default Edition
features 20 planes and 30 hand modeled
airports while the deluxe edition bumps
that up to 25 planes and 35 airports and
the high-end version comes with 30
planes and 40 airports all the airports
are still available in the lesser
versions just without the extra detail
based on what asobo has shown in its
regular update so far even the 20 planes
in the standard edition have been
modeled in far more detail than in
previous versions and maybe even beyond
what some add-ons provide today because
a lot of what Microsoft and asobo are
doing here involves using cloud
technology to for example stream some of
the more detailed scenery to your
computer on demand chances are we'll see
regular content updates for these
various editions as well though the
details here aren't yet clear as flight
simulator 2020 is about to enter its
closed beta phase we can expect to see
more details in the coming weeks leading
up to the release while we're still
waiting for the mainstream transition to
5g Samsung is already beginning to
discuss 6g which the company expects to
be commercialized as early as 2028 in a
white paper published Tuesday
song has said it expects the
International Telecommunication Union to
begin working on 6g in 2021 the amount
of time and work dedicated to developing
each generation of networking has
shortened as time passes samsung said in
the white paper that the company expects
the earliest commercialized date for 6g
to be 2028 it also states its belief
that mass commercialization will or
could occur by 2030 samsung believes 6g
will equally serve humans and machines
as the main users 6g will be will rein
in an era of advanced services for truly
immersive extend of reality - Ella
t-mobile hologram and digital replica 6
G's performance requirement so much must
reach a peak data rate of 1,000 gigabits
per second and air latency of fewer than
100 microseconds for comparison's sake
that's 50 times the peak data rate of 5g
and 1/10 the latency the company has
identified the three major pillars and
requirements that will make up 6g in
order to fully realize 6g performance
architectural and trustworthiness
requirements must be met
5g was mainly focused around increased
performance Samsung's white paper notes
that 6g architectural and performance
requirements will overcome hurdles made
by the limited computational capacities
of mobile devices trustworthiness will
address privacy and security concerns
curious if an electric car will save you
money on fuel costs a report in Canada
shows that the average cost to charge an
electronic vehicle in Canada is just 277
dollars Canadian per year which is
roughly 203 USD you switch who generated
the report looked at the average price
per kilowatt hours in 50 different
countries the average mileage per driver
and the average miles electronics
vehicles get on a full charge to
determine this statistic using this
method Canada is one of the least
expensive countries to own an electronic
vehicle in since the electricity is
relatively cheap in some parts of the
country the most expensive countries are
Denmark Germany and Belgium but even in
the world
case we're talking amounts of around
$800 per year for the average driver the
data shows how much money drivers can
save by moving away from gas-powered
cars if it costs around $60.00 to fill
up and you need to do that roughly once
a month that means you're paying more
for gas in four months then the average
electric vehicle owner will pay in a
year
you
[Music]
welcome to the world of cripples
welcome to the crypto corner it has been
a fantastic week again not of course if
we look into the numbers like Bitcoin
state around 9200 or a theorem around
240 so no huge developments in this area
here but if we sort by seven days then
we see that we had some coins that
increased by over 100% like Elrond dibi
60 percent over 20 coins increased more
than 15-percent
and only four coins lost more than
fifteen percent so a positive
development from that point of view in
the market if we look we compare for
example the history of the big coins in
the defy market like maker or or khyber
or 0x when compared with the profit of a
theorem then we'll see that the theorem
state model is flat at 0% so a lost
minus 0.3 percent but all these others
gained over thousand percent so huge
development that is happening under the
hood in the crypto market and so one has
to be careful also at the same time on
where to invest and how to invest
because you might lose a lot of money
one area that is the case is here you
know I don't know if you've seen those
but those are ads in YouTube or even
this is a live YouTube channel that is
currently transmitting and in here you
see hey you can win a lot of money if
you just participate in this scam the
old scam so don't even think about
putting some money into it I can
guarantee you you will never see that
money back yeah and so how did I do that
nobody really knows but you see them as
advertisements and also as channels
promoting here and as you can see this
one here mr. Kidd Kidd has got three at
39,000 it's all fake
so they're masters in in conning people
also the famous pump in dumps so price
goes up because some people are
promoting it in this case tick tock some
kids
promoting dogecoin a coin that has got
no purpose and the price went up by over
forty fifty percent in one day next few
days it came down again so be careful
with these things don't participate
there the moment you hear about some
pump it will still be too late again
because those that started that pump are
already planning on how to leave that
one next is if we look into compound and
if we want to borrow ransom money then
there is some collateral factor in here
yeah so sixty percent in other words if
I put in 100 percent then I can take
sixty percent out so there's over an
over collateralization in in this
industry and that's how most of these
are staying on a fairly low risk basis
but there has been a new development
obvious the first one that is starting
now with credit ik credit allocation so
in other words you can have a credit
without even putting up some collateral
and the way they solve that is that you
have to sign a contract with a person
that gives you all whom you give the
money and it will be sorted out in an
illegal or regular court in case there
is a default so that's an interesting
development I find now another
interesting development but more on the
negative side or not negative but one
has to be careful is tether as you
remember tether has got from the 24-hour
volume it's number two or usually number
one so you see it's very close to
Bitcoin with nineteen billion being
traded you know in 24 hours most of that
is between exchanges of coming from
china because chinese like to put the
money in to tether to keep it there but
on the downside is they have been sued
by the New York Supreme Court because
money disappeared between the company of
BitFenix and Teller and they both belong
to the same company and and it's a it's
a bank that went bankrupt and
850 million dollar disappeared and so
this Court wants going into detail in
regards to tell us so that might be
really bad news for tether so be careful
also on your end with tether now the
last three ones is what's going to
happen coming week the first one is here
by Nance - has got an exhibition that
started today with fairly good keynote
speakers as you can see it's ongoing
already there are a lot of Chinese
people speaking in Chinese which I find
interesting so it's there's a shift
towards Chinese speakers and it's a good
exhibition the other one is Asia
blockchain always a huge one and also
very good speakers like Chris Hatfield
or has two peers
Adam back one of those big Bitcoin gurus
that we have vitalic beuter in just for
fun go subscribe to see and listen to
vitalic it's if you understand something
curious to you and the last one is the
Singapore blockchain also with some very
good speakers and very good headlines
interesting presentations they're giving
you like Charles from Kara Donna is
going to do some presentations
he is always fantastic to listen to
roger very controversial personal
industry that's also presenting well
just subscribe to these it's worth the
experience and it's worth just following
what they're doing it's great and
they're usually free so yeah that's it
from from us this week so I hope you
enjoyed it I hope you learned something
and I'm looking forward to see you next
week again so thank you very much for
watching Facebook and Sony are preparing
to increase output of upcoming gaming
certain devices Facebook's oculus the
global leading provider of virtual
reality headsets by market share is
eyeing growth of at least fifty percent
from a year ago for its latest version
of head-mounted VR devices pushing
production to two million units
meanwhile Sony the world's number two
video game console maker afternoon
by shipments has also raised production
orders for its upcoming PlayStation 5 to
around 9 million units from the roughly
six million units it had planned earlier
this year the playstation 5 is the first
completely new generation of the console
in seven years after Sony launched the
PlayStation 4 in 2013 and an upgrade in
2016
Facebook's move further underlines the
social networking Giants ambition to
further expand its footprint in the
emerging VR market where it is the
market leader with around 35 percent
market share its first all-in-one vr
gaming system oculus quest became a hit
after it launched last May compared with
the cyclical and relatively mature games
console market which is dominated by
Nintendo Sony and Microsoft market
watchers said VR was still a nation
market where a lot of players are trying
new applications but gaming is still the
most important segment counterpoint
senior analyst Karen cha Han said during
the pandemic the gaming industry
witnessed a record number of online
player additions as more consumers are
considering gaming for entertainment at
home Facebook is looking to further
expand standalone VR which gives users a
more immersive experience than PC and
smartphone based VR headsets the US
company said in June it will stop
selling oculus go its entry-level VR
device which went on sale in 2018 to
focus on the oculus quest and rift
offerings it's more powerful in high-end
products oculus rift s introduced in
2019 still needs to be connected to a
computer to function Mark Zuckerberg
said in an earnings conference earlier
this year that the company's revenue
categorized as others reached 297
million dollars for the January March
quarter up 80 percent from a year ago
which was driven primarily by sales of
oculus products the VR market is growing
HTC formerly a leading smartphone makers
shifted its focus from headsets to VR
while Sony launched its first
PlayStation VR in 2015 Google Samsung
Electronics and Huawei Technologies all
introduced foam based VR headset
using smartphones as the VR headset
screens Apple has been working on
augmented reality technology for years
and has reportedly entered a trial
production for an augmented reality
device recently the worldwide shipment
of all types of VR devices last year was
around 10 million units Facebook Sony
and HTC together accounted for 69
percent of the market but excluding
mobile VR which requires a smartphone
the overall VR market shipped around
four point three four point three two
million units with Facebook shipping
roughly 1.5 million devices Microsoft is
urgently advising Windows Server
customers to patch a vulnerability that
allows attackers to take control of
entire networks with no user interaction
and from their rapidly spread from
computer to computer the vulnerability
dubbed Sigrid by researchers at
checkpoint who discovered it resides in
Windows DNS a component that
automatically responds to requests to
translate a domain is the IP address
computers need to locate it on the
Internet
by sending maliciously formed queries
attackers can execute code that gains
domain administrator rights and then
from there take control of the entire
network the vulnerability is present in
all Windows server versions from 2003 to
2008 and the researchers said that it's
were mobile meaning it can spread from
computer to computer in a way that's
akin to falling dominoes with no user
interaction required computer worms have
the potential to propagate rapidly just
by virtue of being connected and without
requiring end-users to do anything at
all when a worms underlying
vulnerability easily allows malicious
code to be executed exploits can be
especially harmful as was the case with
both the wanna cry and not Pecha attacks
from 2016 the shut down networks
worldwide and caused billions of dollars
in damage Chuck point researchers said
that the effort required to exploit
Sigrid was well within the means of
skilled hackers while there's no
evidence that the vulnerability is
actively under exploit at the moment
checkpoint and said that's likely to
change and if it does the destructive
effects would be high
Microsoft rated the chances of
exploitation is more likely many outside
researchers concurred security Reacher
researcher Marcus Hutchins fears
attackers will exploit Sigrid in an
attempt to wage crippling ransomware
campaigns in that scenario attackers
would take control of a networks DNS
server and then use it to push malware
to all connected client computers
Microsoft issued a fix as part of this
month's update Tuesday organizations
that use Windows DNS should carefully
assess the risks and install Tuesday's
patch as soon as possible the
collaboration between Lego and Nintendo
will go beyond the lego Super Mario
series of playsets set to launch in
August Lego is also making a brick based
version of the classic Nintendo
Entertainment System on Twitter the
official Lego account posted a darkened
video of an upcoming set with the words
are you ready to play like never before
the five-second teaser shows what is
clearly an NES system a controller and a
CRT television which would logically be
composed of plastic Lego bricks can't
quite see it here's what the video looks
like after we brighten it up in result
the 2646 piece lego nintendo
entertainment system set will feature an
elaborate build for the brick base
television a crank on the side of the TV
will make an onscreen Mario jump up and
down and make the on-screen play field
scroll right-to-left the set also
appears to work with the Lego Super
Mario sets clear photos of the Lego NES
were also leaked showing the 8-bit
console with its controller a Super
Mario Bros cartridge and a vintage tube
television and on Tuesday Nintendo
posted a video to their YouTube channel
which shows the set being built
it'll be pricey listed at 300 euros Lego
and Nintendo have not officially
announced a release date for the Lego
NES set as of yet but we expect the
announcement soon thanks for watching
the category-five TV newsroom don't
forget to Like and subscribe for all
your tech news with a slight Linux bias
and if you appreciate what we do become
a patron at page
calm slash category five from the
category five TV newsroom I'm Becca
Fergus
