welcome to category 5 we're gonna have a
great show and you just reminded me so
much of Mario I know going online right
now but you should totally talk about I
mean like I just got back from this
battle royale oh well but if it's like a
game that looks like Mario it's gonna be
oh they're gonna get a CM leg takedown
always a generic or 700 per fect but if
only the thing about Mario that I just
don't like is that you've got to wait
your turn back and forth between the
controller what if I told you that you
can play with 99 people at the same time
like a battle royale like a battle
royale whoa in classic 2d Wow I want to
learn more about this Henry we're gonna
have to show this a little bit later on
also as we're kind of on the kick of
retro we're gonna be speaking with Jim
Hall from the free das project he's the
founder and creator of free dots which
is still a thing
and is celebrating 25 years stick around
this is category five technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 dot TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia IB
viewers who are just joining us are like
who is that voice has been more a
fortnight or two a long time back
everyone yeah good to see you actually
how you been walking well yeah yeah I've
been just counting down the days to get
here to Wednesday night nice to see
everybody good to have you here I am
Robbie my name didn't get mentioned so
I'm very well thank you for asking
got a great show planned for you today a
little bit of a retro theme which your
shirt made in the 80s is absolutely
perfect in yours even I'm just like and
I'm like future tech that's good too I
didn't I guess I just what I didn't get
the memo
you got the tech side hey before we jump
into it today I want to remind you to
subscribe to us on youtube and also
click that bell so that you get the
notifications anytime that we are
posting new and exciting content on our
channel now the free das project is
still a thing mm-hmm
it's still around and not only still
around but celebrating 25 years
and it's an open source das bait dos
clone I guess he would call it das
compatible operating system and we're
gonna learn all about it today help me
welcome Jim Hall he's the founder and
the project coordinator for free das Jim
thanks for joining us and
congratulations in celebrating your 25
year anniversary that's a huge milestone
really for any project Oh like das sure
is now Jim before we actually get into
the validity of Frieda in 2019 I'd love
to hear a little bit about how and why
the project got started let's start back
in the days of ms-dos what brought about
freedom and how did the whole project
begin sure I I was a big das user from
pretty much the 80s on my family started
with an Apple 2 computer like a lot of
people but we moved on to an IBM
personal computer running das I just
thought command line for das was
certainly a lot more powerful to look at
on the Apple and so I I really gotten
into that command line all that
flexibility was putting together these
small tools or the figure things yeah uh
and then I taught myself programming and
so I learned as I learned how to program
I'd write little utilities that extends
parts of the command line a little bit
for me yeah and and then by the time I
got to college I was really a power user
and I had written all kinds of Atilla
T's that was extend the functionality of
das but and I used lots of das
applications especially as a college
student oh the physics major and so I I
used a spreadsheet program as easy as my
favorite and then word processors and I
just really really loved us I I still
you know I ran Linux installed Linux in
93
yeah and back in the very early days of
Linux very very early 0.99 Wow
now tell us what was your first distro
like I was caldera back in those days
mine was a little distribution called
SLS Linux off
Systems 1.03 I think and and it was
advertised as a soft touchdown for das
users and it really was yeah
and so I thought you know Linux was this
I immediately saw that it was more
powerful than gossip but obviously das
still had the applications and so you
know in 1994 you know I read a lot of
Technology magazines and and I started
to see these these interviews from you
know Microsoft saying hey you know the
next version of Windows will not need
das back das is pretty much gonna go
away right and I and I said look I I
still used to haha yeah you and everyone
else at that time because what if we
didn't want to lose that command prompt
right oh yeah yeah you know windows 3
and like I remember saying you know
gotta the next version of Windows
Windows fours don't look anything like
Windows 3 I'm not quite sure I'm ready
to go there I think I'd rather write my
own boss and so I kind I just said I I
posted on Usenet back in the day I said
you know somebody should write a free
version of das and I like Linux right
Linux was the model that I had so you
know somebody should write a free
version of das just like there's a free
version unix so I should write thoughts
and and a lot of people said that's a
great idea and you should do it yeah
that's it that's exactly what's coming
to mind back on the in the Usenet days
it's like well then do it because like
I'm not I'm not doing it it's your idea
and so I took all those tools that I had
written over the years yeah and I kind
of packaged them up and I kind of made
my first little free Doc's release I
made an announcement on Jan you are June
29 1984 saying hey we're starting this
project at the time called PD das public
domain das yeah I understand didn't
understand public domain at the time
versus free software sorry it was it was
PD das per I think like a month I know
you've changed there three dots but yeah
that's where it started and once once I
released that
package that first set of utilities it
was surprising how many people actually
came to me and said hey okay so you got
something going I want to do something
too or I've written some utilities that
expanded my command line or I wrote some
utilities that replace the ms-dos
functionality over here and fantastic
start started to collect those together
and it kind of snowballed from there
that's that's really the origin of freed
up so your compatibility free das vs.
ms-dos was quite interoperable at that
time okay so our first our first
versions were really shooting for you
know utilities and so I I had this grand
idea at the time that they that we break
up at like three different groups this
is very optimistic of me really it would
just sort of happen organically but I
thought we'd have probably a utilities
group we probably have a drivers group
we probably have a kernel group this
because I kind of thought that's how
it'd be done right now and in fact what
happens is everyone just contributes
what they want to do that's how
open-source works what everyone
contributes what they want to do and so
you had a lot of people that contributed
utilities some drivers went out and
found some on different FTP sites a lot
of public domain code at the time that
did a lot cool stuff and and so we
really had utilities really came first
and then after that we I got contacted
by Pat blinding through the folks at the
dosti a new project and he said he had a
kernel that he had written that that was
mostly compatible Dass and he want to
contribute to the house project so
that's that's how we got our kernel I
think I've happened about I want to say
like a year or so on
we got the girl from that fantastic gym
here's a question that you probably hear
a lot of these days
is there still a reason for das to exist
in modern computing okay so I never
really imagined that like redox is gonna
replace Linux or Windows or anything
there's no nobody's I think ever
pitching that Dawson become the new
thing yeah but you know why are people
running to us then in 2019 it's really
because we actually did a survey on our
website a couple years back and I think
this is still true so most of the people
who are running free to us are using
free to us to play legacy you know das
games yes
classic das games and I still do that
and so that most of our users are very
likely doing that we also have a number
of people that are using free das to run
you know legacy applications and in fact
when I was at the university I was a
campus cio for university we actually
had a faculty member that came to us one
day it said I've got these floppy disks
that have data on them from some
research project she's worked on back in
the probably 80s or 90s right and and I
can't read them you know the flappers
were fine but you know she couldn't read
the data files like nothing would read
them and Excel wouldn't read them
LibreOffice wouldn't read them so we set
up Linux or set up free das rather on a
spare machine found a copy of the
program that she'd been using put that
on put it on the free dots machine yeah
and we're able to read the data from her
floppy disks and then just export them
to text files so that way she can get
her database it's like a pseudo data
recovery application as well as retro
users sorry go ahead
people that do embedded system yeah that
happens probably not a lot of it today
are you talking like CNC machines like
that kind of stuff no I think we're
talking about like like one example
problem my favorite example actually if
this guy had made a pinball machine that
used Fritos to drive the bore that keep
snow and I thought that was a really
cool thing I'd love to talk about Dyson
day to find out what happened to that
project but that was that that's one
example of using an embedded system that
runs that runs free to us way cool and
and then of course you always get people
who who use freed us to install BIOS
updates oh yeah still people who run
BIOS updates off of a dolly requires a
das program yeah
our dasa operating system rather and so
people use for us for that I never
really I always forget to count that
BIOS updates as part of the how people
use for us because they don't really
install free das to do the BIOS that
pace they're really just putting on like
a fob drive but but yeah BIOS updates
definitely are one way that people use
free to us today and what makes free das
better than ms-dos like why like
certainly ms-dos is kind of not really
thought about too much these days but
back in the day when people were
deciding between free dots and ms-dos
I'm sure it was even more prominent that
differentiation so what sets you guys
apart oh well I I think obvious one is
we're still working on free Dasan ms-dos
yeah this is still a living project
after 25 years my man yeah yeah people
yeah we're still working on it
and so that's a that's a big deal
obviously the source code you can see
but you know one thing we've tried to do
with Freitas over the years is how can
we make free tasks more modern it's it's
not just about replacing the the
functionality of ms-dos like one per one
and then stopping there I've always said
if we if that's what we did we were just
replacing all the functionality one for
one and didn't do anything more than
free dots to be just as dull as ms-dos
so we've added to the free dos command
line so we've added a lot of utilities
to create us a lot of stuff that just
didn't exist in ms-dos at the time one
thing that I financing is we've added
some unix-like utilities there was this
project back in the 90s like I think
maybe even 80s called the ganoush
project and there they ported new
utilities command line utilities to to
ms-dos and they stopped I think around
95 all correctly but we've we've started
we've kept up by you know people will
contribute you know unix-like programs
or
like programs so you can run them in the
free dots command-line I think that's a
great thing cuz it makes pretty us a
little more approachable the people who
are only used to Linux because ms-dos
command line or the free dosqueen line
it's a little different than than Linux
but adding those utilities back in makes
a little bit more let's say feeling a
little more like home yeah so we just
adding adding this extra functionality
to freed us that that Emma sauce has
never ever had cool now I'm speaking
with Jim Hall the creator of the free
das project the project is celebrating
25 years this week Jim do I need to -
you mentioned floppy disks so
immediately I'm thinking about the fact
that no computer these days has a floppy
drive or anything like that most kids
these days I've never even seen a floppy
disk do I have to have an old computer
to run free das or will it run on modern
hardware so that's interesting question
you running on modern hardware at the
bare hardware level is getting tougher
because UEFI becomes too - so Bri das is
like any dots and it relies on I'm
having a Intel machine with the BIOS and
so if your machine has UEFI it needs to
have a bios compatibility layer in it
which which you're starting to find more
and more rare yeah and so if you've got
a system that just has UEFI doesn't have
BIOS supported at all you're not gonna
be running free to us on that that said
not a lot of people these days are
really running readouts on modern like
new out of the box hardware because this
is a 16-bit operating system yeah there
aren't too many 500 megabyte hard drives
kicking around anymore
right right yeah you're talking just
sour in the terabytes yeah way more
discs than that's gonna be able to so
then what's the option I can I use a
hypervisor like VirtualBox yeah that's
that's how I think most people are
running at the running and running free
to some sort of virtual machine and
that's actually that's how I run credo
so I run Linux is my my desktop
operating system and I run a virtual
environment called qemu okay that would
free to us and so works great there you
know and it freed us because it's a it's
an older operating system doesn't
require a ton of memory so gathering up
that virtual machine is pretty light
yeah other people we do know some people
though do actually install Fritos on
let's say collected hardware a antique
vintage like that makes sense yeah
I'll find out Pentiums 46 is sometimes
386 I think it somebody said they had a
286 but you find this hardware from the
90s early 2000s and and there are people
are that are installing Fritos on those
older machines because they're setting
up a dedicated das machine and and free
software works great there sure hardware
absolutely designed for oh I would
imagine it would just breathe new life
into that old hardware for sure now
there's the other side of it like most
of us are not gonna run out and buy
legacy hardware because truth be told
unless you can find it like cheap from
somebody who doesn't know any better
like it's it's like a collector's item
so you're gonna pay through the teeth
you might as well put it on newer
hardware so if I if I go with a virtual
machine of free daus on my eye 9 like
are my retro games like I think about
like Prince of Persia was brilliant like
cutting edge at the time am I gonna have
performance issues like and and it's
like the opposite of what you would
expect is it going to run too fast like
are my race car games from the daus days
going to be so fast that it's like
ridiculous
there there are so the the answer your
first part is yeah you should be able to
run any das game on free dos just fire
it up in a in a verse machine and run
but I just say there are some
games that ran that has made certain
assumptions about the hardware it was
running on yeah
and assume the machine was only so fast
and that that's how it reacted to to the
player and so there's a really really
old game I think for a CG a system that
age but that called Sopwith that it's
over in a flash because it just assumes
you're running on I think an 80 88 or
look like that yeah even Commander Keen
was like back in the CGA days the
earlier versions of Commander Keen yep
yep but but that one that one runs fine
III run that one myself there's a
there's a pinball game and I can't wear
the name of it pinball game that suffers
the same thing yes we have a way of a
program called slowdown included in the
three dots distribution that that should
help you slow down your machine to so
this only impacts the performance of the
virtual machine yes like so it basically
tricks the software because he didn't
have the same like real-time clocking
and and all that kind of stuff back then
yep exactly and so it slows down just
free dots to to run at that slower speed
or virtual machines have an ability to
kind of emulate a slower system and so
though they'll make it look - at least
to the guest operating system that it's
running a little slower than in your
native CPU Jim immediately what's coming
to mind as speed runs like can I just
overclock it a little bit to make things
run faster is that possible
haven't thought about that that would be
interesting that would be really ok so
that's something that we need to we need
to work on so comment below let us know
what games from though from that era you
would love to play on free dos as I'm
thinking about the hardware Jim these
days arm is taking over is there any
hope that we're ever going to see
anything that's not x86 based with free
dos or is that just a pipe dream free
dos as I said before it really is like
any other dots and it requires an Intel
CPU ok so can you run free to us I'm
like bare metal and like a Raspberry Pi
or something not on a Raspberry Pi I
know the amount of work required to turn
freed us into a Raspberry Pi operating
system this is that's a lot because it's
different operating different
architecture it doesn't have a BIOS so
you're really back to running free dots
inside a virtual machine okay now are
there any plans for the future of
Frida's like here we are 25 years into
the project Doss being something that I
think of as a very retro almost
nostalgic operating system has
everything already been realized that
can be done in a DOS environment or is
there more to be achieved oh it's you
know so we're obviously adding a lot to
the to the command line as I mentioned
I'm always encouraging people to port
UNIX software Unix commands to to the
credos command line and so I think that
that's something that we'll see more of
and yeah kind of more utilities along
because user space is a great place to
be that said there's also another group
that is starting a new kernel project
and their goal is to be able to create a
I think a 64-bit version of a das kernel
that can some that can somehow run
16-bit programs now that that's a human
the best of luck I hope they get there
and I've always said thinking if they
can do it I've been trying it out in
free toss and oh for sure maybe making
it an optional kernel and maybe that's
what's gonna push us oh yeah yeah you've
touched on sorry go ahead
well I'm just saying that's always how
we're looking at expanding you know free
to us somebody somebody is it's never
really I think that directed thing it's
not like we say oh this is the roadmap
yeah yeah we have a roadmap of a kind
but you know it's it's really about you
know people are cut are the ones that
come up and say I'm planning to do this
or here's something that I wrote and
then if it's cool then and useful then
we we find a way to include it that's
really I think how it freed us is really
grown through over the years I think
that's the reason that we're still
around today is that it's always about
what people what people want to do with
free dasu where they want to take it
it's not so much you know one or two
people saying this is the roadmap that
we've laid out and only if you're on the
road never even
so it's always about nope what do people
want to do to make for us great Jimmy I
appreciate your attitude that's the
founder of free dots I think this is an
inspirational attitude that we need to
subscribe to as developers and as just
society in general but and I didn't mean
interrupt you there but I I the
conversation was really driving me to
think about how people are able to
contribute to the free das project you
have a very open mindset you're very
like with the open source concept and
your willingness to receive the kernel
as they develop this new kernel and
other contributions what other ways can
general users contribute to the project
you know we have a contribute link on
our on our website it's got it's got a
couple of things in there you know
obviously we're gonna be getting people
from with different levels of experience
and so people who are sort of beginners
in programming people have some
programming experience people who've got
a lot of das programming experience and
so we have sort of suggestions broken
into that so at the beginning level like
any project we're saying hey test
programs put bugs in to our tracker test
games in particularly because games are
a great way to stress test yeah an
operating system like das so you know
testing games is a great way to do it I
want to see those Mario speedruns folks
kill it the jungle speedrun let's do it
and then we've got other stuff you know
like you know just porting utilities - -
free to us and you know I also been
talking about creating like an
alternative or and we'll say a modern
version of the command comm shell that
that'd be something I'd really like to
see but it's just not something I have
time to work on so it's like if somebody
wants to like really test their
programming chops you know that that
list that we have on our website is a
great place to be you know we also have
some other big stuff like you know
creating something that will allow free
das to work better in virtual
environments like VirtualBox you can you
know mount a
and all file systems or whatever oh yeah
with in VirtualBox you like that would
be yeah I think because really is gonna
be running in a virtual machine ways
that will make free das work better in
those kind of virtual machines I think
is kind of the way to go
so yeah that's there's just a ton of
ways to contribute to free das but
really kind of comes down to what you
want to do yeah we've got list of
suggestions that might kind of help you
help you get going but I I'm really
looking for people who want to join for
us and kind of do something up they want
to that they want to bring on and Jim
your website address being it's at three
dot org fre II do s dot o-r-g and I
imagine we can also download free das
from that link as well absolutely
absolutely Jim yeah we sorry go ahead
with that microfracture of a delay so
we're you know I'm constantly stumbling
on yeah I apologize I was saying you
know that we you know I track our
downloads on the free notes project you
know every time you download free das
off of our website it goes and do a
little trackers I can just kind of see
who's down I'm not tracking who's dying
just this parameter and so I I was able
to see I ran stats this morning and
we've been maintaining an average of
about 50,000 downloads a month was two
years back to May or June of 2017 been a
pretty constant 50,000 so it's it's
that's the software from like 2019 has
trouble achieving those numbers yeah one
of my friends was saying you know some
Linux distributions don't have those
numbers so yeah we feel pretty good to
have that and I imagine that you know as
Linux users or you know we're looking
for ways to play retro gaming and and
emulators are not always the way to do
it so something like free dos in
VirtualBox is a fantastic free way to
make it happen absolutely so Jim I want
to thank you for your contributions to
like the community as a whole as a Linux
user myself like I can see the benefits
in having free dos as a virtual
appliance and and again thank you so
much for your attitude I find it
inspirational and folks learn from what
you heard here today this is how a
project should be at MIT
Jim thank you for being on the show
thank you very much take care folks it's
time to head over to the newsroom here's
Sasha hello here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom Apple has issued a voluntary
recall for the MacBook Pro again Dells
included supportassist
tool is the latest to require urgent
patching after an admin escalation bug
was discovered Windows terminal preview
is now available to download and Robert
Downey jr. is creating a foundation that
will use robots to clean up the
environment these stories are coming
right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with APIs like Linux bias I'm
Sacha Rickman and here the top stories
were following this week Apple has
issued a voluntary recall for the
MacBook Pro again Apple has urged its
fans to stop using certain MacBook Pro
models and has issued a voluntary recall
of the notebooks after they were found
to be prone to battery blazes Apple said
that they have quote determined that in
a limited number of older generation
15-inch MacBook Pro units the battery
may overheat and pose a fire safety risk
they go on to explain affected units
were sold primarily between September
2015 and February 2017 and her project
product eligibility is determined by the
product serial number
unquote MacBook Pro users can check if
their device is covered by entering
their serial number into Apple's support
page those who fall under the recall
will then be given more information on
how that they can get the fire hazard
hazard battery swapped out for one that
will hopefully be less likely to
suddenly burst into flames users of the
apparently cursed run of MacBooks will
remember that it was just one year ago
nearly to the day that Apple finally
caved and agreed to issue a voluntary
recall to replace the keyboards on
notebooks made during the same 2015 to
2017 time period this time though Apple
says quote because customer safety is a
top-priority Apple is asking customers
to stop using effective 15-inch MacBook
Pro units and quotes mm-hmm
Wow it's no default it's a feature is
this thing by any chance like it was
between 2015 and 2017 did Samsung assist
because what's sad cuz like you've
really started to see kind of a downward
turn and like the quality from Apple
recently right and you have all these
other things that if they can produce
$1000 stand why take some a little bit
of extra time make sure everything works
all right like I know it's technologies
so things are bound to break but sure
over time that the battery starts to
blaze because we're two years out from
the production day right so have it has
it been catching fire all this I think I
haven't heard anyone reporting injury or
fire or anything like that but probably
yeah I wonder if because about Samsung
but in light of Samsung's debacle with
was it the galaxy no exploding batteries
and things like that or it doesn't go
over well on social media and you know
Apple is you know they they charge the
high prices because they say ours is
better quality so I sure I'm just blown
away that between like 2015 and 2017
seems like it was a long time ago and I
haven't seen you know a YouTube video or
something
well we'd hear about it yeah yeah we'd
certainly hear about it so as as Henry
says it's preventative to avoid that
scenario where okay they've obviously
tested or had had one happen internally
or something device like Sasha said she
was blown away by exploding battery
Dell's included supportassist tool is
the latest to require urgent patching
after an administration bug was
discovered Dell computers include their
troubleshooting software support assists
last week we learned that it has a
security flaw that can be exploited by
malware and rogue logged in users to
gate administrator powers the IT guy it
includes the windows-based
troubleshooting program with the new
desktops notebooks and tablets
unfortunately the software in securely
loads dll files one run researcher peleg
Hadar said that support assist which
runs with system level privileges will
automatically pull in unsigned code
libraries from user controlled folders
that means malware or dodgy users can
leave their own dll files in a path wait
for supportassist to blindly load them
and thus execute code within it an admin
console au software Nasty's already on a
computer or a rogue logged in insider to
gain complete control over a vulnerable
system it also means that browser
exploits which drop files arbitrarily in
user writable directories can
potentially trigger a remote administer
a lady is present on as many as 100
million Dell pcs the most concerning
part of this story is that has our
believes that Dell is not alone and
shipping pcs with this particular flaw
the reason for this is that the
vulnerability lies in a third party
component of Dell supportassist software
that is produced and maintained by PC
doctor a support and Diagnostics app
specialist PC dr. sells its software to
PC makers that then integrate the code
into their own products such as support
assist in the case of Dell should the
vulnerable software proved to have been
distributed by other computer vendors it
is likely we will see several big names
in the PC space issuing updates similar
to Dells and PC dr. will have some
explaining to do to its partners in the
general public
affected versions of the software
including Dell supportassist for
business pcs version 2.0 and Dell
support assist for home PCs version
3.2.40 Syst for business pcs version 2.0
point 1 and Dell supportassist for home
pcs version 3.2.2 are the builds you
need to install to kill off this high
severity hole that's scary because when
you buy a new computer in and the
software that just comes with it yeah
allows code execution at the
administrator level as just the name of
it though assists like you think it's
gonna help you but oh sure end yeah it's
something that can determine your PC
experience and even just thinking about
what support assist is for and and even
Dell computers in general like it's for
the consumer it's for the person who
doesn't necessarily know a lot about
their computer because those who do
probably wiped out windows and installed
Linux anyways right but so as a novice
user sitting down in front of my
computer and now realizing that this is
a vulnerability that you know that it
could be exploited so again we're
looking at like a pre-emptive like make
sure you upgrade I haven't heard of
anything happening in the wild but
understanding that a website for example
with a JavaScript running that saves
these it's a virus infected or
ransomware DLL files within user folders
and now support assist will actually
open those and run them with root or
administrator privileges it could be any
number of things could be remote access
for hackers to be able to access your
network it could be ransomware or other
types of malware or it could just be
something that locks up your system and
forces you to have to pay some Bitcoin
to be able to continue using it I'm less
afraid for double userdel yeah I guess
users or purchasers because now this is
out for them I'm really concerned for
people that have the other yeah yeah
because I mean they might think oh yeah
well I don't have
so right yeah like I think about not
that not that there's any connection
whatsoever but Acer computers Lenovo
computers the first time you fire them
up there are a lot of branded tools that
come with those computers lenovo has
support tools that are built-in I don't
know if they use that that software that
is that's being a that's able to be
exploited but but what if it does
how do we know there we go it's that
that's the exploit that we know about
the ones that we drive right yeah those
are the dangerous ones I would like this
PC doctor to speak up now and yeah like
Phyllis in who are your customers yeah
you need to know give us the list so
that we can tell those particular people
now's the time the the other fear that
this raises in my mind is it's like when
like Microsoft Windows has these updates
that are breaking systems right you
we're told to always keep our systems
up-to-date because we want them to be
safe right well when you buy a new
computer you're told to have this
software that is provided by the
manufacturer in order to keep you
up-to-date and and keep your drivers
running well and keep things running the
way they should and be able to request
support based on your warranty and
things like that so so is the answer to
remove it well no because it's it's
important is the answer to stop getting
your Windows updates well no but we have
to be I guess a little I guess it comes
down to being a little more conscient
the conscious of what updates are
happening what programs are running a
little bit with with Windows updates you
can say like yeah give me give me two
weeks or whatever right maybe that's the
best practice wait to hear the news
stories the next day exactly
don't just update right away when that
pops up just delay it just a tiny bit
cuz the updates probably important and
probably sure tell your computer but
then there's the chance that might not
be as important and will break your
computer so it's a gamble so back at the
supportassist soft
is there a way maybe in the settings to
disable it from automatically launching
on boot so it's not running and would
only be used if you needed it if you
needed to request support but then again
well what happens if there are dll files
benignly sitting on your system that are
infected and then you run it the once
and it's so yeah update your support
assist software folks and and I suppose
if you have a computer that came with
some support software built-in and you
still have that running look down at the
clock and all the things that are
running down there then perhaps you
should contact your manufacturer and
just like directly not the store that
you bought it from because the store
that you bought it from is not
necessarily privy as to you know if they
you bottle the Novo from a store who
simply drop shipped it to you they don't
know necessarily so contact the
manufacturer directly and say like is
this is this an issue for you are you
using and I forgot the name of the the
dr. software you see doc PC doctor
doctor yeah so are you using that for
your support tools for example or are
there updates on their website that you
need to install so maybe it just means
let's be more active with our systems
windows terminal preview is now
available to download at its build 2019
developer conference earlier this year
Microsoft revealed the Linux inspired
Windows terminal which gives access to
the command prompt PowerShell and WS l
the windows subsystem subsystem for
linux in one place the code has been
available to download and compile for a
little while but now Microsoft has
released a ready-made Windows terminal
app for anyone to try out describing the
open source project Microsoft says that
the Windows terminal is a new modern
fast efficient powerful and productive
terminal application for users of
command-line tools and shells its main
features include multiple tabs unicode
and utf-8 character support and GPU
accelerated text rendering engine
and custom themes styles and
configurations they do warn however that
the app is still in its early stages and
could contain bugs more preview builds
are promised but at the moment a
timeline has not been released if you'd
like to grab the app you can download it
from the Microsoft Store hmm they're
doing what Linux is always done
excellent finally catching on now if you
could just switch to a non fragmenting
file system will be very very happy but
hey nice to see it seems backwards in a
way right here we are 2019 and we're
putting all this work and and geeks are
getting all excited about the command
prompt frightfully absolutely I mean I'm
thinking about episode number 614 of
category 5 technology TV had the
opportunity to speak with Jim from the
free das project and thinking about how
here we are 25 years after the project
was launched and it's still active and
still useful and maybe you know
Microsoft is taking notice and saying
hey Linux users still love the terminal
no free das is still a thing
maybe we should finally do stuff it's
like them fixing notepad so utf-8 is so
well then Microsoft buyout like github
and stuff they do they just see how
popular coding is hey maybe we should
make sure our base standards okay our
command prompt works does stuff like
ASCII character codes basic stuff basic
stuff like okay having a asdf keyboard
is one thing but then being able to use
higher codes in the utf-8 character set
is kind of like 1980s you know like this
is important to us now in 2019 for sure
especially the world wide web has
brought everyone together in the in the
way that languages are no longer a
barrier so if you use you to sew utf-8
being like you know they think about
characters with an accent on
well they haven't been able to support
that up until now what welcome its kind
of future the future of like finally
yeah
but they do have some really neat stuff
I'm interested to know about like
gpu-accelerated texts I feel so confused
by that yeah it's kind of nice I mean
it's anti aliased and nice fonts we'll
just have to see it'll be cool Robert
environment
he's famed for being a beloved Hollywood
actor philanthropist and writer but now
he's adding robotics environmentalists
to his list of good qualities the Iron
Man actor took to the stage recently at
the Amazon Ari Mars conference in Las
Vegas to announce the creation of his
new foundation which will use
nanotechnology and robotics as a means
of cleaning up the planet he didn't
disclose many details on how the
organization will begin its cleanup
mission but a footprint coalition
website went live shortly after the
actor's announcement at the moment it
simply allows a user to sign in to
receive more information once it's
released Downey jr. says that he will be
spending the next 11 months
collaborating with un experts and
building the organization so the
coalition can get to work by April 2020
he also explained how his negative
neglecting vironment in the past is now
inspiring him to take action quote I
have this quiet sense of crisis he said
I'm a one-man carbon footprint nightmare
Colossus but I want to change and quote
regardless of the actor's precise plan
of action Forbes estimates that Downey
Jr's net worth is about 81 million
dollars more than enough to start
tidying up the planet you can find out
more soon by visiting a footprint
coalition com crazy yeah I mean and in a
very good way I don't mean crazy like
like no this is like crazy like for
one thing who it is yes okay so y'all
know how I love robots and you also know
how I love the environment so bring
those things together like the story is
for me I am super excited so Robert
Downey jr. if you want to talk to me I'm
available what category five TV you can
fly out there you know do an interview
or something we're good but let me get
this straight Tony Stark is doing what
well I just think he has to partner with
you long Musk now you know like the
actor for like Tony Stark with the
actual he's already becoming Tony Stark
a real life now cuz he's trying to save
the world so I don't know I wonder how
much inspiration he brings from his
characters from his Marvel Universe's
yeah I mean when you think about it I
mean people see him as that character in
a lot of ways and people who meet him
you know it's like any actor it's that
you can't meet Patrick Stewart and not
think about Captain Picard it's not
possible when they talk about robotics
mm-hmm and the environment I wonder like
what part of the environment because I'm
wondering is it going to be ocean care
is it gonna be robots like filtering
ocean yeah but that's what I envision
that's gonna be air or what what is it
going to be it's gonna be some sort of
like garbage something that could be a
combination because the oceans also
sucking carbons so if you clean the
oceans you clean the air yeah I mean I I
would put money on that it was it's
ocean yeah anything but I don't know I'm
really keen to find out though base
cleaning or something that like it acts
as a tree and filters the air but these
are nanobots like these are like taking
take the thing on my shirt and shrink it
down and then put it into the
environment and see what it does but the
technology these days it's possible so
when you hear something like this and it
sounds so sci-fi and even coming from
Robert Downey jr. you're thinking it
like it just sounds like this is a movie
stunt or something yeah but the
technology can really be created these
days
to that point the time is now like focus
they are all of our attention and our
money on the environment because that's
the only way we're going to see the
super awesome future that we flying
around in space other galaxies clean up
now and I can have the future you want
we we all have different visions of what
he might be up to what nanotechnology
could be used for in order to improve
the environment and clean up the
environment as he says comment below if
you're watching this on youtube or on
our website category 5 TV wherever you
are if there's a comment box let us know
what you think could be down the line
for this new foundation exactly
alternately a Robert Downey jr. if you
just like to you know do an interview
and let us know exactly the details we
are here if you just happen to be
watching exactly in the comfort of your
Iron Man suit right yes big thanks to
Roy W Nash in our community of viewers
for submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for a war free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson
I'm still Henry we do we have to take a
very quick break when we come back well
we're gonna be looking at a super mario
brothers battle royale game I'm talking
like an es quality with up to 99 players
stick around whoa
[Music]
[Applause]
look back everybody now it's no secret
we are retro gaming fans here at studio
D and somebody happened her and I mean
the nerve like the nerves of steel to
create a game based on Super Mario Bros
it was called Super Mario Bros battle
royale for about a week when of course
Nintendo issued a DCMA takedown request
and rather than taking it down the
developer decided to have a little bit
of fun with it and renamed it infringed
EO royale or DCMA royale depending on
where you look at this it's still fully
playable it's absolutely free and you do
it in your browser it just lacks your
beloved Nintendo character and any
trademark infringement mm-hmm so let's
actually check it out you can go to cat5
dot TV slash royale and here we are at
DCMA royale it was it was absolutely it
looked exactly like Mario Bros however
now okay understand what a battle royale
means we're talking up to 99 players
simultaneously playing Super Mario Bros
I mean in fringy oh it's about say I was
on the same screen
are we ready to give this a try you can
do so at cap 5 dot TV slash royale I'm
gonna click on play now I play ants
squad name I'm gonna say cap 5 yeah
let's go loading resources noise oh my
gosh how many people are we ready oh
that's me oh there's me it's just like
this is the lobby yes game starts in 13
seconds okay folks
I love Hut's as the world and it looks
like it is now look I've got cat5 up at
the top left instead of Mario that's
awesome okay one second folks here we go
oh you got to be kidding me
does it give you like your place do I
get another life okay come on oh I can't
end there folks it can't end there one
more try one more try here I am in the
lobby again I think you know what rather
than trying to get the blocks and stuff
I'm gonna try instead to just avoid the
onslaught I don't I mean you can't call
them like Koopalings or anything like
that anymore so infringe shillings
generic err any characters yes yeah here
we go now the sound you can't hear it
because of the way we've got this setup
but know that the the sound it's so
confusing because there are 99 other
players there are literally thousands of
people attacking this server right now
playing infringe e Oh head on over to
cap 5 dot TV slash royale and that will
allow you to play it in your game see if
you get further than me it wouldn't take
mine it's great to see you both thank
you for being here Henry always a
pleasure to have you here hope to have
you back again soon great to be here
it's all the time that we have folks for
this week thank you to those who have
pitched in for our new server build
whether you've sent a little donation
here there whether you've shopped on our
Amazon link or become a patron we
greatly appreciate your support and and
we couldn't do this show without you
don't forget we are on twitter at
category 5 TV
I am personally also on twitter at
robbie ferguson shameless self-promotion
do you have a Twitter account have
YouTube YouTube followed by YouTube
Henry Bailey Brown
for although his YouTube aviation tech
stuff also here believe it or not we are
also on YouTube that's true we are look
for category 5 technology to your
YouTube probably best to bring the Bell
so then they know whenever cat5 stuff
comes out he knows how this works he was
listening Xiao ya Linux tech show.com
will actually take you to our YouTube
channel and that's a secondary YouTube
channel where we edit down all the clips
from the one-hour show so that you can
just watch that 5 10 15 minute clip so
that's a great thing to subscribe to as
well don't forget we're also on Roku's
channel store also on like cody and plex
if you want to download our channels
from our github page which is cat5 TV
and of course we bring it all together
on our official website category 5 dot
TV but that's it for this week everybody
looking forward to seeing you again next
next week
take care
