here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Ubuntu 14.04 LTS has reached the end of
life five years after it was first
released Amazon's AI automatically
tracks and fires warehouse workers who
it determines to be unproductive
Nintendo's hybrid switch console now
stands at thirty four point seven four
million units which surpasses the sales
of the incredibly popular and sixty four
and Elon Musk has revealed his neural
link startup is close to announcing the
first rain machine interface to connect
humans and computers these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category
five dot 2d newsroom covering the week's
top tech days
slow Linux bias Jeff Westen Gemma you're
building a brand-new beautiful website
what
aren't you your terrible actor what this
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay are you building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash DreamHost to
sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today
cat five dot TV slash DreamHost
I'm Sachi Rickman and here at the top
series for following this week Ubuntu
14.04 LTS has reached its end of life
five years after it was first released
when a piece of software reaches
end-of-life most commonly called AOL
this marks the end of all support and as
of this past Tuesday there will be no
further security updates package updates
or maintenance updates to a boon to
14.04 LTS for desktop or server users
since 2012
each long-term support release or LTS of
Ubuntu is backed by five years of
ongoing supports security patches and
critical fixes the benefit of getting
ongoing band the benefit of getting
ongoing band-aids of bug solutions and
core packages is one of the reasons if
wound to LTS releases are the preferred
choice for millions of users but even so
that support is finding although support
for Ubuntu 14.04 ended April 30th the OS
itself will continue to work without any
major issues third-party repositories
can even continue to provide packages
for the release the though very few well
canonical advises that users alva boon
2.14 point o for LTS upgrade to an
activity it's actively supported version
of Ubuntu as soon as possible
well what we don't have five-year
support on our life the upgrade path is
really quite simple so follow the
directions that they provide and you can
actually get to the next version of
Ubuntu LTS quite simply just yeah
because it's based on Debian so like
we're used to apt app get and you can do
all that through in Ubuntu as well is
there any reason why somebody would
stick to fourteen point oh four like I
can't it's a server OS right so well I
mean it can be it's they offer both a
server and desktop distros on a server
though sometimes like you've got old
software that depends on old
dependencies and maybe you know your
company paid twenty thousand dollars to
have that software developed and do you
want to redevelop it if like say it it
uses open SSL one or something like that
yes you do
spend all the money you need to spend
and make it happen but that that might
hold you back I mean and and you know I
hate to say it but government you see it
a lot where you know they've invested so
much money in software and this is why
we sometimes hear about data breaches
that have to do with software and
various facilities not just government
but companies as well because they spend
a lot of money to build the software and
technology moves very very fast yeah we
have to budget as we're building that
software for ongoing regular maintenance
it's like a regular thing so it's not
just like buy it and forget it no you've
got to pay whoever is developing it to
continually keep that up to date but if
you don't then you've got software that
depends on this old operating system and
if you upgrade the operating system
you'll break that software right that's
a big problem
ah it's catch-22 it's like they all have
to do this all at once like it needs to
be a lot of communication and
coordination and everybody just just
never never stopped at all system you
just can't ever stop evolving way if you
if you run websites like people deploy
WordPress websites and then
don't have it actively maintained by
somebody who understands how to do that
mm-hmm and then you get compromised and
you wonder why right maybe you know why
but you know it's you got to spend the
money to keep it safe though that people
you know they look at their cars
I don't like oh I need to get my right
well change means I need to it's true
yeah tires absolutely mining into my car
but when it comes to their computers and
their software it's like about this five
years ago it still runs well it's not
the point
yeah and it's that's a really
interesting analogy because like I work
in a computer shop and and I know like
if I take my car somewhere and and it
has something wrong with it something's
clanking under the hood and they say
it's gonna cost X number of dollars I'm
like okay you know like sometimes it
hurts but it's gotta be done yeah or
maybe you know maybe it's at the point
where now okay maybe I got a buy
something else but you know that you're
spending money at that point so but in
computers you're right a lot of people
will say oh you know what now just
they're running servers with blown caps
yes some people are a little bit
allergic to updates like they're a
little bit like software scared hardware
- part of the problem is there's a
mentality that comes with it's like oh
there's a software update yeah but
there's bugs examine or this and then
they don't do the update you're on
Windows the truth of the matter is some
updates will brick your system right so
you know that doesn't happen Sasha so
it's so it makes sense that people be
afraid
Michael I hear you so last week we
talked about how if you have a USB flash
drive plugged into your computer and
then the may update runs yeah it can
break your system and yeah we have a
viewer Michael who reported that it
actually bricked to the system yeah so I
can understand why people wouldn't want
to do updates but the thing is when
there is no more support you got - yep
you got - yeah it's time keep on top of
it I mean you absolutely have to it's
tough it's certainly tough and in
business it costs a ton of money
it really can Amazon's
AI automatically tracks and fires
warehouse workers who it determines to
be under unproductive Amazon's
fulfillment centers are the engine of
the company massive warehouses where
workers track pack sort and shuffle each
order before sending it on its way to
the buyers door
critics say those fulfillment center
worker workers face strenuous conditions
workers are pressed to make rate with
some packing hundreds of boxes per hour
and losing their job if they don't move
fast enough documents obtained by the
verge show those productivity firings
are far more common than Outsiders
realized in a sign letter last year an
attorney representing Amazon said the
company fired hundreds of employees at a
single facility between August of 2017
and September 2018 for failing to meet
productivity quotas a spokesperson for
the company said that over at the time
roughly 300 full-time associates were
terminated for inefficiency the number
represents a substantial portion of the
facility's workers a spokesperson said
the named fulfillment center in
baltimore includes about 2,500 full-time
employees today assuming a steady rate
that would mean Amazon was firing more
than 10% of its staff annually solely
for productivity reasons the numbers are
even more staggering in North America as
a whole
Amazon operates more than 75 fulfillment
centers with more than 125,000 full-time
employees suggesting thousands lose
their job with the company annually for
failing to move packages quickly enough
documents also show a deeply automated
tracking and termination process
amazon's system tracks the rates of each
individual associates productivity
according to the ladder and
automatically generates any warnings or
terminations regarding quality or
productivity without input from
supervisors
although amazon says supervisors are
able to override the process ok critics
see the system as a machine that only
sees numbers No
people the system goes so far as to
track time off tasks which the company
abbreviates is T ot if workers breach
from scanning packages for too long the
system automatically generates warnings
and eventually the employee can be fired
amazon says retraining is part of the
process to get workers up to standards
and that it only changes rates when more
than 75% of workers at a facility are
meeting goals the bottom 5% of workers
are placed on a training plan a court
according to the company an appeal
system is also part of the termination
process workers have at times push back
against the company's productivity
requirements last year East African
immigrant workers at a Minnesota factory
facility organized protests against the
company saying they didn't have
sufficient break time including for
prayer in response Amazon has continued
to tout the benefits of working for the
company pointing to their hourly pay
rates and policies like parental leave
but the documents make clear that some
workers failing to me productivity
standards won't reap the benefits of a
job at all hmm right Jeff I feel like
you have a lot to say about this
questions comments what are your views
on this because I I'm on the fence a
little bit because I don't know all the
details I am also on the fence a little
bit because I okay I've seen it both
ways I have worked in places where if I
don't reach my goal or in my quota
I'm reprimanded and I'm working really
hard and somehow it just doesn't happen
then I've also been in places where
everybody seems to just be dragging
their heels are not working nearly as
hard as they could that's the thing
that's my perspective we live in a world
right now where people feel like things
are need to be handed to them on a
silver platter right let's take personal
days and let's let's use our vacation or
our sick days as vacation days and the
reason I'm on my phone is because this
is totally reminding me of an episode of
Doctor Who from season 12 where
they had to visit a facility called
ker-blam and it's like it was so Amazon
and and this is absolutely ringing true
with that episode where it's this
massive warehouse and there are robots
that are controlling people getting
right okay okay so here's the thing
quite literally and Doctor Who I will
like completely let you talk at some
point Jeff but when it is pure data that
is terminating people it's really not
based on I guess emotion but we
understand from the the news that the
supervisor has the power to override and
that the bottom 5% go through training
processes to help them to better their
productivity right people should be
placing drops are good at if you are not
good at this job then you can't just
keep it if you're a bad boxer sorry but
it's time to go and it's the computer
telling you not me as your manager so I
feel a little bit better at that it's
really tough because I do understand the
side of it where there's the like the
slave labor mentality well I don't know
that that's really the case but I can I
can see how it's being spun that way and
putting Amazon in that in that light but
I think it's interesting that they can
that the technology can be used in order
to monitor and report productivity
because it is a real problem these days
yeah you wanna dance I think good yeah
go ahead go ahead this like I I
completely disagree with this okay I I
have no issue with a company setting
performance standards I have no issue
with a company setting targeted goals
and all that kind of stuff sure what I
have an issue with is the fact that is a
computer making the decision that the
fact is we are all human beings we all
have different things that are built in
so the problem with an AI generated
system that terminates employees is
that it doesn't have the built-in prompt
ration well not even compassionate cuz I
mean like if you if you remove all
emotion from it and you look at it from
say a legal standpoint yeah and you go
okay so so-and-so has a documented
disability in which they have an
accommodation and they have limitations
and restrictions on what they can do and
they can only move so fast Bob get on
the job Jeff I was quiet mm-hmm so so
he's saying Robby be quiet yeah exactly
go ahead but all that stuff you can't
just plunk into a system and have the
numbers work out because the fact is
there's a people factor and you cannot
have those decisions run by a computer I
can I can 100% see and I have no issue
with the company that goes based on our
performance metrics it appears you're
not up to snuff we would like to help
you get there you know when they talked
about training and stuff like that yeah
the fact that the computers like you
sucked at the door no I completely
disagree again is that how it's being
spun though that is 100% what the news
story said I know but and the supervisor
can override them yeah primary decision
but capabilities rests with a computer
on whether humans are capable of keeping
up with data for the system right that's
not right
Netflix needs to make a document I
worked for a bank and at the bank I
worked I had to sell credit cards and
lines of credit and I sales job I am bad
at it I am the worst salesperson you I
would rather just buy things myself than
sell them to anybody else that's just
who I am I am bad at it and the computer
every single month told me I did not
meet my sales goal and they kept me at
that job I think because I was friendly
even though I didn't do a great job at
all for a long time but I wasn't the
best person for that job if right right
like I just wasn't I wasn't a good match
I don't want you to have a visa but like
here's the thing so we have an honest
visa performance measurement is
everywhere in the workforce you go to a
McDonald's drive-through and they have
that little clock that says this person
waiting more than the you know typical
30 seconds that it takes from all right
that's it go sweep up the cigarette
butts in the parking lot right could you
imagine if suddenly McDonald's
Institute's a computer that says sorry
teenage job worker making minimum wage
you missed 30-second window times by you
know 30 seconds on average over the last
week you couldn't flip the burgers fast
enough you're out the door like I'm
sorry
life happens life happens you cannot
have a computer make the decision what
happens if your Amazon package is really
delayed we have to move on guys have to
move sorry I understand there's a human
factor we all go into work and we have
lousy days once in a while I'll go into
work and I have an unproductive day
right and I try in that moment I try to
at least you know I'll take calls and
I'll do what I can to at least you know
get some paperwork done or whatever
needs to be done but if I just went into
work and there are people who will go
into work at whatever job and just
dilly-dally
all day long chaton on facebook and and
do all this kind of stuff
those people need to be cut and the you
know unions I'm sorry hold those people
in their positions and I don't like that
so if there's a computer that says that
I know you will but if there's a
computer system that says okay this
person is just wasting company time
that's different I understand your
perspective of they're doing their job
but they're just not very good at it or
they need to get better or faster or
whatever they're not meeting quota
that's that's tough because yeah hey if
I've got a sore arm today which I do I'm
not going to be packing boxes quite as
fast as yesterday but how do you build
that into the app really so it's very
polarizing because you can't ever have
all the facts and that's why I say kind
of tongue-in-cheek
Netflix needs to do a documentary I want
to see what's really going on you know
what don't worry because there are more
stories coming up oh good more
polarisers minnows hybrid switch console
now stands
thirty four point seven four billion
million units which which surpasses the
sales of the incredibly popular n64
Nintendo's latest financial earnings
results are now available giving us a
look at the company's hardware and
software sales for the past fiscal year
not only did Nintendo's recent spat of
switch exclusives sell an impressive
number of copies the switch console
itself has also hit a new sales
milestone during the fiscal year ended
March 31st Nintendo moved sixteen point
nine five million switch consoles while
that fell just short of the company's
revised plan to sell seventeen million
units during the fiscal year it did
represent a twelve point seven year on
year increase moreover it brought the
system's global sales thus far up to
thirty four point seven four million
surpassing the lifetime sales of the
Nintendo 64 which stands at thirty two
point nine three million the switch has
been an impressive rebound for Nintendo
after the poor performance of the
company's previous home console the Wii
U which sold just thirteen point five
six million units over its lifetime the
switch on the other hand has been
selling well since launching back in
March 2017 managing to outsell its
predecessor in just ten months however
it remains to be seen whether or not
it'll match the company's best-selling
home console the Wii which stands at one
hundred and one point six three million
Wow III think they can do it
I think the switch can do it and I think
part of the failure of the Wii U is that
nobody needed a new console at that time
right it's like why are you bringing out
this new thing that's pretty much the
same thing just kind of revamped and
wanting me to buy this new thing like it
right well my we could play the the
Gamecube and a Nintendo Wii so you know
I'm perfectly happy with that I'm not
upgrading exactly now we're at a time
where yeah it's time to upgrade and the
switch is smart like the whole LeBeau
thing no I know stem is a hot thing but
well they have lab OVR now it's
overpriced right you can just pop it in
there you can play Zelda VR now it's not
gonna be perfect right it's lights but
it's still gonna be fun and it's gonna
get people still interested ok I think
it's just gonna tweet me a novel it's
not a selling point for me I know it's
not for you but it's not about you it's
about is about right it's it's not that
it's all about I love it and I probably
won't buy a labo thing but it's it's
cardboard for a hundred bucks
give me a break perfect that is perfect
no evil marketing genius you boxes that
we've recycled and we've just repainted
them to make them look like a piano okay
absolutely genius idea but the game
console so here's the scenario we have a
55 inch TV hanging on the wall
downstairs yeah
my daughter will be using it but with
the computer so just a scenario but one
of the boys want to use the switch well
she's on the TV so what do they do they
pick it up out of the thing and they
connect the controllers and they go and
they play it on the couch exactly and
it's like and then when she's done on
the TV they can take it and plug it in
and continue playing their game and it's
like fantastic right and sometimes Dave
and I are sitting on the couch and he's
playing and it's a game where I can you
know also play so he learns into the TV
well no plug it into the TV and rollers
you can the one controller turns into
two controllers and notice flipping
sideways and it's me this is smart
Nintendo you've done well I think the
portability of it is what makes it so
appealing sure I mean cuz you can't walk
away with your xbox you can't walk away
with your PlayStation if yeah so the
fact that they said you know what how
can we multi-facet this platform so that
it's on your TV it's you can bring it in
the car you can take it to the beach you
can sit in a boring meeting and play
like they thought of every
the computer is going to fire you which
is good because the more you bring it
around the more the chances you're gonna
drop it break it needs buy a new one
hence selling millions of units and
that's called the Sascha method that's
the Sascha that's how she does it folks
Elon Musk has revealed that his neural
first brain machine interface to connect
humans and computers yep the
entrepreneur took to Twitter its as hell
followers the technology would be coming
soon
though he failed to provide details
neural link was set up in 2016 with the
ambitious goal of developing hardware to
enhance the human brain however a little
about how this will work has been made
public the startups website which is
advertising vacancies for eleven
different jobs describes the futuristic
technology is an ultra high bandwidth
connection between the human brain and
computers mr. musk has frequently
claimed the rapid rise of artificial
intelligence poses an existential risk
to humanity such an interface he says is
essential if humans are to compete with
such technology in the future speaking
last year on the Joe Rogan experience
podcast mr. musk said that neural links
technology would allow humans to
effectively merge with AI a paper
published in Nature nanotechnology in
2015 described a concept for this
connection explaining how a flexible
circuit could be injected into a living
brain
Charles Lieber who co-authored the study
said we're trying to blur the
distinction between electronic circuits
and neural circuits we have to walk
before we can run but we can we can
really think how really really
revolutionized our our ability to
interface with the brain
despite the technology's potential to
augment the human brain experts have
warned that the brain computer
interfaces risk being hijacked by rogue
artificial intelligence they warn that
such a scenario could lead to AI
controlling the thoughts decisions and
emotions of a person using a brain
computer linked
yikes
first of all I thought he was kidding I
mean he was hi this is a real thing
this is a real thing and you know what
in the right situation this is a great
thing in a battle against robots
however like can you imagine okay
because you only use what 10% of your
brain I don't even know the stat for me
like no people don't just don't use much
of their brain but if you had one of
these little doodad worm guys in my
keyboard right like a Borg oh yeah what
if it could activate different parts of
your brain and your just your awareness
could go up what if there are more
senses to have it has some really neat
potential right and it could be it could
it could help to make decisions based on
facts not emotions I think a are as an
example would be an incredible
incredible use for this type of
technology now Elon is kind of talking
about using it to be able to interact
with the computer in such a way that
because we have trouble like how can we
understand what an a what an AI is
thinking because we can't it can't be
visualized and it's too fast and too too
messed up for us to conceptualize so if
there's an interface that can allow us
to understand a little bit right about
what the AI is thinking then isn't that
different so you may not be able to
answer this question because you are not
Elon Musk but if somebody was speaking
to me in another language and I had this
hmm
could I just understand them sure
Universal Translator it's part of the
Borg technology right I don't see why
not I mean we already have that
technology it's in it's in your
smartphone and you can actually like my
phone with the AI chip it works really
really well and happens almost in real
time and you can get devices that do
that right could this take your vitals
in a way that if you were to be
suffering from carbon monoxide poisoning
it would alert you before you fall
asleep and I hate so that would take
augmentation with sensors rights
I'm thinking this is a great thing
hybrid cyborgs hey Jeff I just remember
when science fiction was fiction well
like yeah that's all you get from them
folks
yeah he's another one of those ones
where it could literally be the entire
show of debate back and forth but like
as you were reading this story and I
gotta try and be really quick about this
because I need to be need to be we're
out of time yeah but I feel like I
remember back when I was in university
that there was somebody who had was
quadriplegic that had hooked up some
sort of a transmitter to their head to
run components of their house opening
doors and stuff like that how neat I
mean that's going back to honey 15 years
ago okay but from the standpoint of your
brain runs off electrical signals so
could you in theory with this have
somebody hack into the computer
interface reverse the electrical signals
to now send signals to your brain to
mimic things like you now think you see
things that you're not actually seeing
your body reacts sure they are man you
could be hacked
what a great to have this kind of
interface and I I don't know if we
covered it on the show if there's
something I read but recently within the
last like three months I read about
people who had their they're two
different people who had their brains
hooked up to like 16 different
electrodes that read electrical impulses
within the brain and as one person
thought of a number the if the number
popped into the other person's head cool
so I mean just with that kind of back
and forth electrical signal to throw
this kind of interface and it's like
there's a bad news and that has some
scary implications you remember the
black mirror episode where the soldiers
yeah we're seeing like creatures right
and so they were like we need to kill
all of those creatures yeah and really
they were just like they were just
people right that's when they put they
were the enemy in war yeah they were
genetically flawed that's what the
higher upset yeah you think they are
they were able to trick the soldiers
into thinking that this was
Humanite yeah absolutely human creatures
that they had to kill because they're
gonna take over right so it could go
really really bad
it really could but it could also be
amazing because requires so much
regulatory oversight yeah oh yeah that's
tough let's jump over to coin gecko and
see what the crypto market looks like as
of 1800 hours Eastern Time on Wednesday
what is today the first Wow first of May
2019
okay Bitcoin everything's down a little
bit but Bitcoin is down 95 46 u.s. it's
down at five thousand three hundred and
thirty nine dollars and 23 cents
light coins at seventy two dollars and
27 cents US dollar
etherium that 158 25 Manero at 6377
steli the little guy one point six ten
thousandth of a cent and turtle coin
hanging in at one point one seven ten
thousandths of a cent remember the
crypto currency market never closes and
is always volatile big thanks to Rory W
Nash in our community of yours at for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
news rooms don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha Rickman I'm Robbie Ferguson
and I'm Jeff Weston
[Music]
[Applause]
