in fairness we had access to most of the
scripts in season one yeah so we knew
where it was going okay and you know in
and this is not a knock on Fox or
anything but I think everyone including
Seth and I'm theorizing here for a
little we talked about is that it for
him to come out and be taken seriously
as a sci-fi vet I think even he was
probably nervous about it you know it's
like so he had to sort of see change the
audience to get used to him to being
able to tell more serious stories man's
always had it in him you know everything
is I mean this is his vision this is his
baby but I think you know I think he I
think I think a lot of you worried like
well it has to be Family Guy in space or
they're not accepted yeah
probably lean too hard in that direction
in terms of promotion and things like
that but like I always knew that when
the pilot was around you know about a
girl was already you know most of our
season for a season was already shot
same thing with season two when Brooke
came along like you know we knew what
we've know where it's going
yeah and that also helps us inform how
we edit the effects post shoot the whole
season we we we know how it ends um so
the most frustrating part is waiting you
know three months six months ten years
whatever long the hell we get this next
year that the fans to see it yes
sometimes they'll ask a question and
we're like no the answer yeah and I'll
be I'll be honest I personally when I
first started watching the Orval had a
real problem not envisioning Brian as ed
mercer like but just because it's Seth
right so Brian the dog from from Family
Guy and and so I I stuck it out and it
was around episode five that I really
realized that hey this is this is like
the genuine article this is this is
great and now like I can't get enough of
it well I'm gonna get he's gonna I'm
gonna get in trouble for this but the
boss man can act like I said but I gotta
stare at him all day
he's actually got chops and you know he
is not he is not Brian it's in him I
mean it's part of him but he's you know
if you've saw a lot his voice and some
other
things that you know he's got he's got
skills and depth and range so for sure
it just you know he needed some time to
need some screen time for people to know
that yeah so that's all well I think the
approach has been fantastic and it
certainly worked out well oh yeah and
absolutely like such a talented guy when
when you came in tonight we were
listening to Seth MacFarlane on our
Amazon echo I'd encourage you to try it
just say shuffle songs by Seth
MacFarlane and see what see what it
comes out with
