welcome to category five technology TV
it's so great to have you here with us
this week if Sasha and I and we're gonna
be learning about the logistics that go
into like the very things that happen
behind the scenes the stuff that we
don't always think about when it comes
to retail shipping and when we order for
the stocking stuffers that are coming
well we expect everything to get here
really really quickly and there's a lot
that goes into that we don't always
think about it we're gonna be learning
from one of the largest software
companies in the world as far as
logistics goes and we're gonna be
learning about how that's done
and some of the things that are to come
from the logistics software industry
also we're gonna be talking about ways
that we can recycle keurig k-cup s-- and
be a little bit more environmentally
friendly incidentally a very good
stocking stuffer for us as well and a
massively powerful USB battery device to
charge our phone even than our like our
any device like I I can't believe how
powerful this portable little device is
want stick around
[Music]
according Tsar trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nibble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 TV category
5 TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tackett's here cap 5 dot
TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cap
5 TV slash iai be welcome the show
everybody great to have you here I'm
Robby Ferguson I'm Sasha Rickman and
before we get into the show this week I
want to remind you make sure you
subscribe to us on YouTube click that
bell and that's going to make sure that
you get the latest notifications anytime
we post a new and shiny video that's
gonna send you a little push
notification to let you know yeah it
works very well for me very very helpful
this week well I mean we've got an
interview for you it's an interesting
industry to talk about one that we never
think about right logistics it's true it
is the season folks we're all expecting
our next day deliveries our two-day
prime shipping and logistics is is what
it comes down to with the Christmas
season upon us and we really expect to
have a good supply of product and we
expect it to get here fast
immediately I even know because my son's
birthday is just before Christmas and so
we're like looking through and planning
things out and and it's like ok well if
we leave it to last minute we really
really need it to get here fast
dan cassis is here with us he's the CEO
of one of the world's biggest logistics
companies
it's called route for me and he joins us
this week to discuss the magic that goes
into making sure that our parcels
arrived in time dan thank you for being
here on the show thanks for having me
and just to clarify it's one of the
world's most biggest logistics software
companies okay
yes yes it's all very complicated folks
we're gonna learn about it here and
Dan's gonna help us out with that Dan so
if you could explain to us what we're
out for me does ensure so what we do is
we help businesses make a profit that's
kind of our main objective with the
logistics space in any business that is
intensive in the logistics space yeah
it's a very cutthroat business margins
are tight as we look at what is a
business that has logistics intense
needs it's pretty much any business that
has a person visiting their clients for
any reason whether it's a field service
call a delivery a pickup pool cleaning
anything that that requires a human
being to leave a building that is in
today's market a logistics business and
so many businesses don't consider
themselves traditionally logistical
businesses but in fact the shift from
customers coming both b2b customers and
b2c customers coming to a business's
place of business now the reverse is
happening where there's an expectation
that everyone comes to the customer mmm
but with that you get much higher
complexity you had much higher cost and
you also have much higher risk because
you not have a lot of people out there
driving prone to accidents going into
people's homes putting stuff in their
fridge potentially or their garage and
the compounding effect of all those
risks also has a cost that most
businesses need to understand yeah the
crazy thing that's coming to my mind is
that with the higher cost the Dan's
described
yeah we all as consumers are expecting
free shipping free next day eight three
two day shipping like so like with the
evolution of online e-commerce will call
it e-commerce it's kind of an old name
for it but realistically like most of my
shopping is happening online these days
so how have you seen things evolving as
far as the logistics go Dan so when you
will get online shopping when I guess
the biggest split has been I would say
the larger mega-corporations and then
everyone else yeah so we look at the
mega-corporations these are the ones who
have almost unlimited funds to invest
whether it's a rent a bill or by model
and they'll go out and they've been
doing is identifying opportunities to
integrate across different systems so
this there's a trend that we're now
seeing called multi echelon optimization
which basically means you have lots of
systems you have lots of people upstream
and downstream and supply chain and they
don't all play nice and then I'll talk
to each other and you know talk to each
other in the same language and even if
they did some of the systems are systems
that are not real-time and so if you
want answers on a shopping cart page and
you want to know how much something
should cost a ship or accelerated
shipping or one-hour shipping or even 15
minutes shipping you can't compute all
that if your system takes 10 minutes to
planner out yeah or your 50 drivers and
so the biggest change is now they're
integrating all of these different
capabilities so that they can create
compelling offers to the to the customer
yeah and then actually do what's called
demand shaping and change the behavior
of the consumer to do things that are
more
for the organization I let's say here's
a coupon 50 bucks if we can deliver to
you three days later because brewery
again being your neighbor Oh smart it's
gonna cost you the real dealer cost to
make this deliveries $250 but because
you're a VIP customer you spent so much
money with us we're gonna we know ahead
of time that it's profitable and not for
us to promise it but at that Lago we ask
the mate there's only three to five
companies worldwide that do that yeah
everyone else is kind of doing a little
good sub pieces up and when I say that I
mean doing it at scale I don't mean like
you know just doing in downtown
Manhattan yeah yeah either nationally or
internationally sure and and with the
holiday season upon us how how does that
change the logistics industry and how
things work behind the scenes so because
the logistics logistics and the last
mile and final mile and the first mile
all these things have one thing in
common
that thing in common is for the
foreseeable future they're human beings
involved in that in the fulfillment part
of it and humans get tired they call out
sick we quit
you get better offers their car breaks
down what if it's a personal vehicle and
as well as the company vehicle accidents
happen so what happens with especially
during these holiday season influx of
parcel as well as gifts as well as
people ordering flowers and gift baskets
from local shops whatever it may be that
they're ordering when you can have the
world's best software giving you the
most optimal work plans and routes
optimized yeah but if they're humans
aren't playing ball or they're just not
around there's no there's no way that
you can actually take leverage that's a
problem
Sasha I think back to when we were kids
and how we had the Sears catalog and it
was like mail order everything right dan
do you remember those days when
everything was mail order and we didn't
we didn't expect two-day shipping no no
that would that would be mind-blowing
that would be something out of fantasy
right realistically like you were
ordering in November to hopefully get it
in time for your December gift-giving
true right
but in contrast now it's aggravating if
I can't get it in two days yeah yeah
really and we expect it cheap or free so
Dan like how does like the consumer
mindset of needing everything so quickly
now like we we just expect it
instantaneously I'm blown away that half
of my Amazon orders just to use one
example come in next day that's true and
two days is acceptable
anything beyond two days unacceptable
right how has the consumer been like
just absolutely flipping this on its
head there are some companies out there
that are willing to spend a fortune to
to scale rapidly up and front-load their
growth yeah and they want to do that
because they know that once everyone
else is out of business they could
control whatever they want however they
want and so the decisions being made and
some of the things happening that are
enabling these organizations to do same
day or next day delivery yeah I'm at a
huge cost that is severely unprofitable
and it's especially unprofitable without
the right software and technology and I
think the fundamental difference is that
it's very with the exception of two or
three global players they don't have the
sufficient density it's Ounces Dana
bellowing and making some of these
promises because not just about
deliveries it's it's about pickups it's
about reversal just
well sure all the stuff happening out on
the field and what we do in terms of
what has changed is that we have we had
a client they were doing a million
transactions a day in one geography do a
million transactions a day without using
cloud computing and your own mapping
cluster and your own navigation systems
that you control is almost it was
completely impossible to do that I mean
some of our mapping clusters you know
have terabytes of memory and thousands
of cores you could do these bonds now
you know in seconds or minutes that was
totally impossible five years ago
without using scale our elastic cloud
computing Wow
so I like I'm hearing like loss leader
comes to mind and like so these big
companies using loss leaders in order to
get you to shop through them just for
the unbelievable logistics that they're
providing I I can't claim Dan to really
understand the intricacies of the
logistics that are involved like as I
say like as a consumer I just expect my
parcel to arrive in a timely fashion I
need it to be here on the date that it's
expected and and not be late and but I
don't really understand how that works
it's kind of mind-bending to me because
it's insane to think that I can order
something from this multinational
company that has it here to me two days
later what would you think dan is
probably the most misunderstood by
consumers as far as how the logistics
works so there's a lot of pre staging
and pre-planning that goes into it and
there's a lot of inefficiency in that
process so I think I'll give you a few
examples let's say you every time you
add some to your shopping cart there's
an 80% chance that you're getting by so
companies have now gone smart enough
that by learning your behavior as a
consumer
when you add it to your car and you're
one of the people who will typically
commit to purchasing when you've added
they'll actually trance dart the
shipment on a big truck or a line haul
route from one of their distribution
centers to the final distribution center
Depot before they ever provide no are
you kidding me that's crazy
oh my goodness I feel bad when I just
leave things in my cart
I'm totally adding a bunch of things to
my cart like fun so some of them will do
that and then Wow order it it's not
coming from the middle know where it's
coming from somewhere so I know they're
evil another type of strategy they might
use is on the e-commerce side mm-hmm is
let's say there is a certain number of
see you know seasonal SKUs or types of
things that people order most frequently
or most often so they'll have those
obviously distributed in various regions
based on the historical demand
yeah the anticipate demand plus perhaps
what they call on the demand side
detecting what people demand sensing so
there's dancing that some banners are
clicking really well that goes back to
our module on optimization linking the
ad campaigns to the shopping carts to
the fulfillment side what ends up
happening is you get you understand
what's happening early on so you cannot
get recruit those drivers early on or
subcontract before the competition does
and I think in general what's most
misunderstood is that multi I think
there's this idea again with the
exception of two or three global players
almost nobody builds their own logistics
software systems it's all mostly rented
from someone else and then when it's not
rented it's mostly run on like a
spreadsheet so some of the you know you
have companies that are generating
hundreds of millions billions of dollars
in revenue they're running on
spreadsheets or
they're running on a combination of
consumer maps that they're using for
commercial purposes yeah and it's
difficult for the executives to
understand what's happening because
they're not in the day-to-day operations
and so you have the operations people
who are it's difficult for them to
articulate what they need and then you
have the executives that don't really
understand what's happening on the
ground so that's so certainly another
misunderstood challenge in logistics
Wow I have to admit Sasha and Dan and
audience I almost feel guilty because I
have about two hundred things sitting in
my Amazon cart how do you I do because I
I use it like bookmarks oh and now I'm
feeling like okay well how much of the
logistics have I impacted just by
bookmarking this product like should I
be using wish lists or something like
that we are speaking with dan Casas he's
the CEO of one of the world's biggest
logistics software companies
it's called route for me and we're
learning about how the logistics work in
this incredible world that we live where
it's really like coming out of the 80s
and 90s I feel like it's it's almost
sci-fi how quickly we expect our
deliveries to happen how we dreamed of
being able to place orders on the
computer which was new to me as a child
but being able to place your orders
online and and now that's like that's
where most of my orders come from if you
are from online and it's the these
amazing logistics and all of the work
that goes on behind the scenes that we
don't necessarily think of that makes it
all happen dan I think about how the
technology has changed and you know I'm
I'm a bit old-school I grew up in the
80s and so I saw computers and the
evolution of them and now you know my
kids are growing up in an era where
artificial intelligence and machine
learning is actually a thing this is not
something from sci-fi this is really
happening is this something that is
currently impacting
Logistics are you seeing that there is a
shift to artificial intelligence machine
learning in the logistics industry I
think going back to your previous
question when the machine learning model
with no kinetic consumer like you
doesn't buy things in the shopping cart
so incorporating that type of technology
would help them avoid wasted resources
and then for the other individuals who
actually commit to what they had they
would you that technology would indicate
according and they indicate that they
want what they want accordingly and I
think that we're in the very early
stages of ML and AI too and I would say
that is the very beginning of the hype
cycle yeah it comes to what it can do
and from a tech perspective and a
programming perspective it's a lot of
really scientific really statistical and
analytical work you have to look at a
lot of data it's not that kind of exotic
type of you know thing that people might
expect that are happening like you
mentioned some of these sci-fi
futuristic movies and it's more about
just getting access to tons of data you
have to be big enough to have that data
ya have to be big enough to them
experiment with that data do
multivariate experient experiments do
all kinds of tests on different cohorts
of users and how they're being affected
and I would just say that a lot of
companies in our industry and in many
industries in general our kind are
taking advantage of the fact that
machine learning and artificial
intelligence are now both words and
autonomous now part of that lexicon sure
yeah I'm just adding those initials or
acronyms to to their product lines when
in fact what we've seen is even without
him machine learning and they I these
businesses can
in some cases we've seen two hundred
three hundred percent improvement on on
their business and the big challenges of
ml and AI is that it does things that
are statistically significant or that
the computer can understand using all
the data that it has but then explaining
it to the human being and so executive
why some of these decisions are being
made is very difficult and so again the
technology is there
yeah but then explaining to people why
that's wide decided to do certain things
the way decided because let's say
traffic flow and a specific street and a
specific day in the week when schools in
season huh and the temperatures below 24
degrees and the delivery person is gonna
walk really slowly that's all the stuff
that we incorporate into the model and
we still don't even that still doesn't
even need machine learning or AI so when
you add that additional level just
becomes very difficult for the end user
to understand some of these decisions
and so it's got to be done very
carefully but when it is done carefully
the results again you're gonna get much
more accurate predictions about
everything wow I love this now I know
that I'm taking this into the scope of
like what I experienced day to day but I
go from client's house to client's house
and my job and I am given just straight
ten minutes travel time no matter what
no matter what the weather whatever the
traffic her if there's construction in
Barrie Ontario so I really just need you
to talk to my boss Dan and talk about
yeah I mean you the system our system
detects things like some buildings no
elevator you got to go five storeys oh
wow and then and some of the legacy
systems will penalize drivers I'm saying
hey why'd you spend twenty two minutes
of this location right supposed to beats
one item but their system doesn't know
hasn't acted this location and vertical
market and all of it so these are and
then
all of a sudden you're firing or
penalizing drivers and there's driver
shortage when you don't have the right
data isn't it interesting to think that
the very technology that people are
afraid are gonna take jobs is actually
in essence protecting a job yeah by
giving the data that's necessary for
them to understand dan can you explain
to us like just briefly you you
mentioned as we're talking about AI
machine learning that it's still at a
fairly early stage and we understand
that but can you like look into the
future for us a little bit and just kind
of see where things are going to be
going over the next couple of years as
far as those technologies go well I
think what you want to do is use them
you there's you can incorporate into
almost any use case for examples being
that there's a lot of evidence that if
you stand a person that works for you
give the same client over and over that
your customer retention may improve but
then how do you determine the
compatibility of which person likes to
see which other person or we have
drivers for example in different cohorts
so some of them like to work in the
suburbs where they don't interact with
many people because they're very
introverted and then you have others who
want to be constantly interacting people
so they want to do the
business-to-business stuff yeah
in the downtown and so using the you can
sit there all the time and you can tag
things and want to do all that extra
manual labor but why not use this
machine learning technology as an
example of matching that's unreal the
right the right people yeah you're right
driver we're talking we're basically
talking about like machine learning
saying oh well Sasha would do really
well with this particular customer
exactly and Robby would do really well
with this particular customer so let's
send them out accordingly and improve
our turnaround improve our customer
loyalty which is really I mean these
days and certainly in retail it's it's
something that that we're all concerned
with
customer loyalty like what's gonna keep
this customer coming back to me when
there are the big companies that are
pulling their business away by loss
leaders so the like to use AI for that
is just that's just astonishing wrote
for me of course at wrote for me calm
Dan can you share with us a little bit
because you know some of our viewers
have retail companies some of our
viewers provide services that could be
fulfilled through logistics application
and software to be able to drive that to
improve their customer loyalty their
their flow of business how can route for
me help our viewers and and retailers
and and basically just anyone who falls
into that kind of customer base for you
well we typically see in terms of the
segmentation of customers is that what
we call dynamic routing and then we call
record routing and most businesses fit
let's say 90% of their transactions into
one of those two buckets dynamic routing
businesses have routes of change almost
everything there could be service call
industries
it could be parcel delivery
it could anything where the workload
changes dynamically or in a wave is like
four times a day
you got your 8 a.m. shift new gift for
p.m. shift and your night shift and then
you have your recurring routes and your
recurring routes are the pool cleaning
people who wander pool clean every other
Monday but twice Wow
before the relatives visit them and one
more time after their relatives visit
them so the third one being the hybrid
of the first two and so what customers
are encouraged to do is to load up their
customer list and they could synchronize
from there couldn't books that could
synchronize from whatever CRM system
they're using and then they send their
schedules or they upload their files or
import their orders from a border
management system or point-of-sale
system yeah and a system like ours will
then take the physical and geographical
locations of those customers plus the
available workers that people have or
subcontractors yeah and then it will say
ok go here at 8 a.m. go here at 9 a.m.
and so on and so forth and then by day
of the week it'll curing every single
thing they have to do so that if you do
have to send a manager once a month and
a regional manager one Supporter to your
customer it can orchestrate all that
automatically Wow and then you you can
actually keep track of where the driver
was down to every 10 seconds an app will
tell tell you where they were when they
got there get a signature and get a
picture confirmation so it really
protects the business as well from bad
customers because there Pete there's a
lot of customers out there saying you
didn't do the work or not you broke it
or came broken so this is a probably
just as good or better than insurance
policy because it provided provides the
ability to evidence all the work then
it's done any type of work that was done
and then if they're if it exposes that
there's a bad employer subcontractor
then that's also for protection because
the you fix that problem early almost
that if they're going out once for years
so Dan now up until the point is like
this very point
I've been skewing this interview toward
and our discussion toward retail right
because that's that's what I think of
when I think about logistics and
especially at this time of year because
I'm thinking about all the orders that
I'm placing for my kids right and all
the stockings that I have to fill but
it's more than that but I'm in a
services company like I'm providing IT
services and I have staff and team
players that are in the field providing
IT services and an on-site service for
for support customers and MSP customers
who are paying for service on a monthly
basis so are you saying that that route
for me is going to not only assist with
the retailers and and that kind of
logistics shipping logistics but also
with the support and services industry
for sure and in fact from a on the
softer side on the south side of the
software we almost look at parcel as a
dying business and when I say a dying
business I mean for the software
providers and that there's very few
companies that are actually at scale
with sufficient density to continue
doing parcel deliveries there's probably
five to ten of them at the most and the
top three are so vertically integrated
that there is very little room for
anyone besides them to actually do the
fulfillment and still make a prison
above profit for it to be worth their
time so what that means is in fact that
four car so it's not that big it's not
that interesting but what about
refrigerate that you're not gonna send
that by any courier you're gonna send
that potentially from a local on a box
truck so that's what makes sense
furniture delivery that ecommerce of
bulky items is where things are gonna
really start to heat up because you
those are expensive they're heavy you
need a special vehicle the vehicle needs
special equipment people need to be
training the equipment and then you have
to match up the vehicle height
potentially with the loading dock height
if you're doing a b2b delivery so you so
that you're sending the right vehicle to
the right place based on does it have a
lift in the back yeah yeah
is the driver equipped and insured and
allowed to drive the forklift in order
to lift this device exactly yeah or do
they need a body driver in addition to
that so because it's a team lift and
it's heavy so there's a lot of a lot of
moving parts but we're skewing more
towards that the next 10 to 20 years are
gonna be more about actually field
service yeah field operations field
sales field marketing and less and on
delivering boxes and parcels and more on
bigger items and the service services
okay so route for me calm and that's the
number for route for me calm you're
gonna learn all about Dan's company so
it sounds like this could benefit even a
small IT firm such as mine yeah we're
we're sending people into the field and
and I need to be able to imagine being
able to allow machine learning I mean so
many thoughts are going through my mind
here Dan to allow machine learning to
plan out the routes and the the support
for the IT team right to maximize
productivity I mean they're getting paid
by the hour to be in the office exactly
yes I have I said aloud today at work I
wish a computer could do this because
yeah just like plan my route so that I
can like maximize productivity right I
feel so bad for the people in the office
who when a client calls in and needs to
change one appointment it kind of Domino
effects everything well if that was just
inputted in and the computer said okay
well now you're not gonna see this
client at this time but you are gonna
see these three other clients kind of
staggered in a different way and
everything fits yeah right that we're
talking very different industries here
these are three different industries
we've talked about that we've got IT
services which is me we've got personal
support worker services and caring for
the elderly which is Sasha and and
retail as well exactly
Dan can you share with us just quickly
so we know route for me comm is where to
go to find out more information is there
a particular methodology that you prefer
or that would work really well for our
viewers who are thinking hey I'd like to
know more about this and how route for
me services could help to improve the
logistics of my company what's the best
method to pursue that so they're the
primarily one of the I would say
transformative things has happened in
the industry is that probably two or
three organizations like ours have what
we call a self-service trial the
remaining calm
are continuing to sell legacy software
on premises that is just a disappoint
too expensive to rewrite and to put on
the cloud and so what we encourage
people to do is to take a free test
drive the software they sign up they
could use Google SSO you don't even have
to fill out a form yes seven day trial
we have a marketplace all our modules
are there you pick whatever you think
your company needs it's all broken up by
an unbundled by module so you only pay
for what you need and then you use the
trial for some days you can upload
routes you could share them with a
driver you could even put in your
customers phone number and the system
will notify them that there's a person
coming show them on a map where that
vehicle is you can control how soon you
want to show them so that they don't rob
your car if you've got something
valuable on it so it you know show it
only once around the corner and so as a
long way a good time is he does more for
the team I would say two or more people
we're gonna use it if it's intended for
individual use like a prosumer or as a
sole proprietor we have the mobile apps
the mobile apps have 90% of the
functionality of the web app their top
five or top 10 highest grossing
navigation apps globally hmm in both app
stores for the last 10 years you can get
the maqam over the lap again it's a free
trial you can import route the addresses
blend stops do whatever you want and
then it when your business matures
enough that you need multi driver multi
day routing and cetera then you just go
to the web plan so there's a an entry
point for every stage of a small
business and etic midsize business and
then and they just and then there's a
third one if you do have a larger
organization let's say hundreds or
thousands of people and you needed more
hands on a more consultative type of
approach than just use the contact form
and tell us about your use case your
unique needs and then we help you figure
out is that something we have off the
show
need to customize things a little bit
and work on a run with organizations
that have unique needs and today was
another example that we had a client who
wants to optimize their routes not by
distance not by time or by the amount of
money they're paying for ton of what
they're moving yeah and their contracts
are structured in a way where they
they're built by the distance to the
last destination and so they want to
completely adjust their routes based on
how theirs their contracts of structure
and which are contrary to what most
people feel is the optimal but for them
it's optimal it's not about time or
distance it's about we wait per ton to
the end of the nation
what's that gonna cost me yeah yeah very
cool
very adaptive to various industries I
love that and realistically the
logistics industry is changing and we
know that like IT industries are
changing and the ability to provision
product is like that's all changing and
very very rapidly I think machine
learning and AI has some to do with that
and so as businesses we have to kind of
stay ahead of that curve right so we
need companies that are already ahead of
the curve to help us to be able to
provision what our customers need which
is the logistics in order to provision
them with the services that they're
demanding right and and I need to be
able to maximize the the staff hours I
need to be able to maximize the the
ability to get product out while
minimizing cost as you're mentioning
like the cost per ton well you know how
can we minimize our cost per ton and and
maximize like how much can we get out in
a single shipment so we look at services
like route for me comso route and the
number for me calm and Dan we appreciate
your time today and sharing with us
about your service and and we look
forward to - all that's to come
and it's really really interesting to
see how the logistics industry is really
being shaped by technology itself I mean
that's the driving factor here so we
need to stay on top of it you can visit
route for me calm to find out more damn
thank you for your time thanks Cheers
we do have to take a really quick break
when we return we're gonna be looking at
a portable charger that is so incredibly
powerful it's going to blow your mind
but it's not going to blow your wallet
stick around welcome back everyone this
is category five technology TV Sasha do
you use a smartphone yes if you use like
bluetooth headphones yes any other
charitable devices what do you what do
you have to charge my kids are like
they've got their action cams yeah
they're constantly charging those
portable chargers I'm thinking sweat oh
that's an interesting point
what else do ya Kendyl switches us PC
yes what else what well yeah my I mean I
guess my dash cam but yeah that comes
off of the 12 volt yeah but if I wanted
to take it outside of the car I would
need to keep power on it if I wanted to
use it anything else yeah okay all right
interesting that you mentioned the
switch yes and I'm gonna come I want to
circle back to that okay because
typically a portable charger doesn't
have enough power to power something
like a switch right but what if I could
tell you the ravpower okay I've been
really impressed with rat power folks
grab power what did that do when I hit
that down it made quite a noise cat five
dot TV slash portable is where you're
gonna find this yeah rap power they they
make the batteries that we use in most
of our lighting rigs here at the studio
and everything else but what is really
really cool about what they've got with
with this particular power bank which
I'm gonna get into the box should I get
into the box is a power bank that is an
insane amount of power are you ready for
this yes 26800 milliamp hours can you
twenty six thousand eight hundred
milliamp hours do you want me to break
that down okay so I'm actually just
gonna jump into the box here the box
it's not it's not any bigger than my
traditional like power brick I'm gonna
push the button and see if it's charged
did it come with a charge it did the
lights light up so I can actually see
that this particular power brick Sasha
yes it has two ismart ports that is like
fast charge it has a USB type-c okay and
it has an input port which is USB micro
so that's for charging feel that oh yeah
what else is in the box
okay let's quickly get in the box did I
mention twenty six thousand eight
hundred milliamp hours so I want to put
that into context for a second please
this will power a Mac about a MacBook
Pro this will charge your MacBook Pro
and it fits in your pocket it fits in
your duffel bag or your laptop bag oh
this is like a nice little carrying case
a fancy carrying case they've thought of
everything ravpower that's a USB micro
cable to charge that device so that
allows you to charge it from your
standard USB output this is another USB
micro so I guess you could plug this
into the the ismart ports in order to
short charge your phone and write other
device right or you can reverse it and
put it into the input port and charge
your actual raft power device okay
alright what else is in the box let's
see this looks like USB see ya
yes that's a USBC cable so that will
allow you to charge your let's say your
notebook computer can you imagine that
you can actually charge
your notebook computer from this so
anyone who has a pine book or a pine
book pro that's what you need you can
actually charge your pine book pro from
this device probably multiple times this
will charge a Nintendo switch yeah this
has a USB C output and it came with a
USBC cable this will actually charge
your Nintendo switch three maybe four
times on a single charge and to boot
sash are you ready for this the standard
charger takes like 14 hours this will
take like 4 how do they do that because
it's got a smart it's fast charge ok it
pumps the juice into the internal switch
yeah go exactly it's just like hey
Nintendo switch let's like let's juice
you up is this new magic like it is yes
it's exactly new magic that's exactly
right
what else have I got for you as far as
specifications go ok it will charge an
iPhone 10 this is the brand new iPhone
ok five times five times on a single
charge ok and the iPhone 10 of course
has got really good battery life as it
is so what's that like five days worth
of charge it's got enough power to
charge your macbook pro and keep it
going your raspberry pi think about that
we've looked at the PI Voyager yes as a
battery backup solution for the
Raspberry Pi but what about putting this
in the field
connecting the input to like a solar
panel and allowing it to charge this I
love that
how many milliamp hours is this 26800 I
don't understand my brow many years
well the raspberry my brain doesn't get
what that means like well your standard
batteries are like you might get like a
couple thousand milliamp hours okay and
this is twenty six thousand eight
hundred yeah on a single charge right
it's not that heavy for all it really
isn't
but but so plug this into a Raspberry Pi
or another single board computer let's
throw a Totoro xu4 on here and see how
long we can power it for we're gonna
power it from the battery like
infinitely because as soon as the Sun
comes up the solar panels are going to
recharge this if you put solar panels
I'm just using that as an example but
it's a ton of power but that said you
could you could plug your Raspberry Pi
into this as a server or whatever take
it elsewhere and it's still powered and
then you switch it over to the power on
the AC and it's never down you're always
up if you're using it as a server or
something like that all right what do we
got 30 watt type C so 30 full watts when
I was mentioning the Nintendo switch
just a quick note for you yeah you can
actually charge it from this and power
it from this while playing it so I want
to be clear now not with the HDMI of
course the HDMI uses the USB C but if
you're just using a screen you'll be
able to charge your your Nintendo switch
while you're playing it and then as soon
as it's finished charging put it back on
the the HDMI if you wanted to put it up
on the TV
port in a power outage in like a natural
disaster you want to play Mario Kart 8
I'm sure you probably do very very
important be playing your way exactly so
I talked about plugging in expensive
hardware like a Nintendo switch plugging
in your MacBook Pro plugging in your
pine pine book pro whoa what kind of
protection is there against surges and
things like that there is there is surge
protection built into it how do you like
that it's got overcharge short-circuit
and search protection so it will not
overcharge your device it has protection
against that it will not short-circuit
your device it has protection against
that all built into this little thing
would it keep your device you know how
sometimes when you're charging something
it gets really hot what is that will it
keep that strip that's heat oh he no
heat is good he is good yeah heat is the
transfer of electricity okay as long as
it's not unsafe like if it's on fire
then you're probably not you're probably
not
you don't have surge protection I'll
tell you that much
but yeah heat is the like the transfer
of electricity will result in heat okay
that's inevitable okay so so yeah you're
you're gonna generate a little bit of
heat when you're when you're
transferring things over when your
Raspberry Pi is powered up from it or
from AC or whatever okay yeah you're
gonna encounter that that's it folks
hey three point four amp iSmart ports
out of a battery that's better than most
of my power supplies that I plug into
the wall so it's fantastic if Dave were
to get this for Christmas we're ready
yeah dave was to get this I know it's
all the things I want for Christmas if
you want this for Christmas
it's cat5 dot TV slash portable Sasha if
you're watching this live of course that
will be up after the show but that's all
that I need to say about that I'm just
very very impressed I mean you got to
think about that three point four amps
coming out of the ismart ports and when
I work with single board computers all
the time like I always want portability
I want power and this is going to give
me way more than enough for something
like a Raspberry Pi right I'm very very
pleased with that but looking back your
headphones mm-hmm you can charge them
from this you can charge your whatever
you want if you're a traveler you need
that that's absolutely on the road again
get your raft power it'll keep you
powered up that's the new quote and you
have to say it that way just like that
but hey we have to head over to the
newsroom Sasha I'm gonna set that down
there if you're ready to head on yes
just like that
just throw it across the room they are
indestructible by the way they're not
indestructible
do not ever yes they're not oh my
goodness it's on fire that's all there
is to it okay Sasha if you're ready
we're gonna head right over are you
ready I am okay here's what's coming up
in the category 5 TV newsroom the US
Interior Department is grabbing its
entire drone fleet for fear it could be
used against them
Google is buying Fitbit and promises
that they will not exploit all that
health data to serve ad Microsoft edge
is coming to Linux the late James Dean
is getting digitally restored for an
upcoming movie and many on the internet
including Chris Evans aren't happy stick
around the full details are coming up
later in the show this is the category
five dot TV newsroom covering the week's
top tech stories slate Linux bias direct
enjoying this week by Robbie Ferguson
some quick honorable mentions this week
sash SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket deployed 60
Starling satellites into Earth's orbit
this week that was just Monday did you I
don't know if you at home caught the
video I was watching live and it was
astonishing to think that an independent
company has sent a shuttle basically up
into the Earth's orbit and released 60
satellites so what does that mean well
60 satellites okay well why do we need
more satellites what they're doing is
creating the Starling technology so now
I believe my theory is that Elon Musk
who plans to go to Mars is going to be
up linking our internet service here on
earth with Mars I think that's a very
distinct possibility otherwise why is he
so keen on getting satellites into the
Earth's orbit that are the internet
however our immediate acknowledgement of
what he's doing is what we still rely so
much on cable yeah and I mean wires I
mean like the big honkin wire that's
under the ocean that brings the Internet
across the ocean like we're still so
heavily reliant on that so what would
happen in a world where we were no
longer reliant on that if a natural
disaster happened let's say a hurricane
right that would typically take out
infrastructure so we lose our phone we
lose our internet we're no longer able
to communicate with a with family we're
no longer able to let people know that
we're safe nor are we able to find out
what's happening next yes is there a
change in the weather is there a turn in
this we should meet sure yeah so I'm
using a natural disaster as a simple but
effective example so now imagine if that
internet provision which Internet
provides voice over IP phone service it
provides our news our weather
forecasting and our communication with
Internet these days we have everything
that we need as far as communication
goes I would agree yeah so imagine if it
was not susceptible to land-based
natural disaster or war or famine or
third-world like the the inability to
create infrastructure within the third
world because of simple financial
reasons right so you think about those
kinds of things and you think ok well
let's put a whole bunch of satellites up
into orbit and now we're now no longer
susceptible to those things so now when
natural disaster strikes everyone still
has communication within that zone when
the third world countries need access to
high-speed Internet for education they
have that so that's the immediate thing
that's happening here with StarLink and
that is now underway and there are other
things like I mentioned independent like
this is not NASA on Mars
yes but immediately this is not NASA
this is not government funded this is
not a government of the world that has
come and said okay we're gonna send
something up into space no this is an
independent company and whatever you
believe about Elon Musk I think he's a
genius he's a brilliant man and he's
doing something that has never been done
before and we're about to see some shift
in the technology we're about to see the
shift in how things work around here
and and certainly I think he's planning
for the future and when I say Mars I'm
thinking we know that that's his
long-term endgame you on musk and if
that's his long-term endgame well why is
he putting satellites into the Earth's
orbit that have internet acts
and is that going to allow communication
with Mars which is mind appending to me
that's sci-fi and yet this is actually
happening right now also in our
honorable mentions google is attempting
to combat the growing placed or malware
issue and they've actually formed an app
defense alliance which brings technology
from ESET lookout and simpie reom to the
Play Store so you might have actually
noticed that now when you install an app
on Android it gets scammed first yeah so
andr Android or Google has said okay
well that's not our specialty the
malware thing East that's already doing
a fantastic job of this so let's work
with ESET let's allow ESET to create
something for our app store and we're
working with these other companies
through this Alliance as well and so
it's going to reduce the amount of
malware because it's scanning everything
that goes into our phones through the
App Store and I think it's a good thing
it's a very great that is a good thing
it's it's preventative measure right it
really is but it's also these are
third-party so these are not Google
mm-hmm they're aligned with Google which
is good for them but there are those who
are afraid of I don't I shouldn't use
the word afraid are a little bit on edge
about monopolization right there are the
big three and Google is one of them and
and you know if there's so much power so
if Google has all control yeah you can't
say buy this from Google and Google says
that it's safe yeah so now we've got
third parties that are involved yeah and
third parties that are saying yes this
is safe it feels better yeah even if
those third parties like I think
definitely a good stop it's definitely a
good step but it's also a little bit
funny because you know the malware
problem is like so they're they're
taking a different approach to Microsoft
Microsoft has said oh well we'll just
and we'll just create a antivirus within
our operating system that's garbage by
the way but we'll put it in there and
Google is saying no that's not our
specialty we're gonna let the pros do
this and we're gonna let them take care
of the malware issue it's an interesting
interesting case
and finally in our honorable mentions
this week NASA scientists opened an
untouched Rock and oil sample from the
moon that was returned to Earth on
Apollo 17 that marks the first time in
more than 40 years that a pristine
sample from the Apollo era has been
opened and what's really really cool
about this session is that we've seen
pictures of the x-ray data from 40 years
ago of those samples bran is like blurry
and and now they've shown x-ray photos
that are AI enhanced and
machine-learning enhanced through
current 2019 technology and it's
absolutely mind-blowing how the
technology has shifted our ability to
look at these samples and just goes to
show like hey that was a good move on
NASA's part to be able to you know set
those samples aside and wait for the
technology we had the technology to
actually do simple and yeah yeah very
very cool yeah all right let's get into
the top stories we're following this
week okay
the US Interior Department is grounding
its entire drone fleet for fear it could
be used against them overseas federal
land and resource management says it's
grounding its entire aerial drone fleet
of more than 800 UAVs out of concern for
Chinese spying and drone aided
cyberattacks every drone in use by the
Interior Department is either
manufactured in China or uses some
Chinese made parts interior security
David Bernhardt made the order two weeks
ago and the drones will remain grounded
until the department completes a review
of the security risks they may pose many
of the drones are currently used by the
department to help with combating forest
fires monitoring dams and floods
inspecting land for property and
environmental damage due to erosion and
monitoring endangered species some of
the concern is centered on whether the
drones could be used to transmit data
including photography and video of
sensitive US infrastructure that may be
the subject of future
cyberattacks the move is the US
government's latest escalation in its
push to punish Chinese companies for
years of alleged trade secret theft
despite the u.s. purchasing billions of
dollars in products and equipment from
Chinese firms every year US lawmakers
last month introduced a bill that would
prevent federal agencies from purchasing
drones from China something that could
greatly impact Chinese drone giant DJ
eyes business federal agencies have
warned against using DJI products in the
past but the company has never faced an
outright ban a spokesperson for DJI said
quote as the leader in commercial drone
technology we have worked with the
Department of Interior to create a safe
and secure drone solution that meets
their rigorous requirements which was
developed over the course of 15 months
with DOI officials independent
cybersecurity professionals and experts
at NASA we will continue to support the
Department of Interior and provide
provide assistance as it reviews its
drone fleet so the agency can quickly
resume the use of drones to help federal
workers conduct vital operations so I
hope that the decision to ground the
fleet is based upon security and not
politics information will say because if
it's based on politics and I weed we
don't get in we try not to get into
politics here here's what I will say
okay people love to use drones people
need to use drones now we have come
accustomed to them we want consumers you
mean consumers and industries I mean I
even just heard in the news today that
our local community wants to use drone
different defibrillators oh that's
amazing yes so smart yeah so drones have
become a part of our everyday life and
can I just say can I just inject here
drones we're using the term drones and
that's what's in the news story we're
talking
quad copters and hexacopters we're not
talking military units we're talking
devices that are designed to assist and
we're leaning into that technology we
are leaning away from it so if the US
wants to stop using amazing DJI drones
hmm they've got to come up with a
solution that's better
american-made the truth of the matter is
they make really good products and and
nobody's gonna want to dial it back
they're so good that you almost look
past the Venus but is there if eNOS I
mean it sounds to me as though DJI has
done their due diligence they've worked
with the military they've worked with
the government they've worked with
cybersecurity professionals in order to
develop the technology that is in use
I'm so I would say that they're doing
their part so why not that's how it
feels and I say that with reluctance
because there's always there's always
the chance right but come on the
American government has the the power
the manpower the smarts to
reverse-engineer firmwares yes they can
look at what packets are being sent and
transmitted but realistically we're
talking about devices that are designed
to assess exactly as you mentioned
defibrillation yeah I can get a
defibrillator to you in minutes rather
than having to get it there on an
ambulance right when you're in the
middle like we're here in Canada so when
you're in the middle of Algonquin Park
exactly think about how horrendous it
would be if your spouse went into
cardiac arrest exactly if they can if
they can drown in a defibrillator I can
keep them alive yeah until paramedics or
help comes right minutes versus the the
worst case scenario and I don't want to
discredit that okay so if there is
intelligence that says these particular
that are saving lives are spying on you
and sharing the location of the
defibrillation unit with the Chinese
government because they because they
care right they want to come on
realistically like why why does the
Chinese government care that you are
putting out a fire in this particular
area like it just doesn't make any sense
to me
realistically again if there's
intelligence then let me know but yeah I
know we don't know the in my head it
just seems a little bit yeah strange
play I'll just leave it it it seems like
trade wars yeah to me yeah that's
opinion I know I'm sorry
yeah I would like I would like real
solid proof yeah that DJI is doing
something untoward sure I'd and I have
not yet seen it we've yet to see proof
that DJI and we've heard this in the
news and as you mentioned DJI has
they've warned against the use of DJI
technology not because there's anything
wrong with them but because they're
Chinese what the heck
yeah since when like since when you're
not gonna comment on that we stay away
from politics since when Sasha I thank
you that's just let's move along
health data to serve ads Google will pay
two point 1 billion dollars to acquire
Fitbit the second largest company in the
wearables market inserting itself into a
world increasingly dominated by Apple
and continuing the mass consolidation of
consumer technology by the big three
corporations Amazon being the third
party offering $7.35 a share
Google was prepared to pay a seventy
percent premium to take control of the
company although the overall evaluation
is not even twice fitbit's annual
revenue serving to illustrate the
company's recent struggles it is
Google's fifth largest acquisition more
than it paid for YouTube or
ways back in the day and illustrates two
things first that Google is increasingly
focused on Hardware following its nest
and Motorola acquisitions and second
that wherever Apple or Amazon go Google
follows Google's efforts to repeat its
approach the mobile phone market with
where OS took a hit last year when
Huawei ditched it in favor of its own a
homegrown operating system Google
clearly decided that it needed to
control some hardware in the market and
so a guarantee a foothold and a two
billion dollar acquisition of Fitbit was
the answer the biggest concern about the
acquisition given Google's business
model is what the web giant will now do
with the vast amounts of personal data
it will now acquire senior VP of devices
and services Rick österlen addressed
this point saying when you use our
products you're trusting Google with
your information we understand this is a
big responsibility and we work hard to
protect your information put you in
control and give you transparency about
your data end quote
he goes on to clarify quote similar to
our other products with wearables we
will be transparent about the data we
collect and why we will never sell
personal information to anyone fitbit
health and wellness data will not be
used for google ads and we will give
Fitbit users that tries to review move
or delete their data and quote Fitbit
customers have been complaining for
years about the declining quality of its
products and software so Google's
inevitable migration to its system will
probably result in a better user
experience over time looking at the
bigger picture however the acquisition
of Fitbit will only add two arguments by
governments and regulators that the big
three Google Apple and Amazon have too
much power and a reducing competition
across a whole range of markets yeah and
I think data is the currency these days
right that's really really true and do
you know how much data is Fitbit has on
do you know I do know what are you look
at that there is nothing she's got a
Google device on her wrist
so here's the thing I love Fitbit yes I
also actually love Google independently
of one another Bentley what if they were
amalgamated I don't love them to be able
to marry together data points about me
that I would like to keep separates okay
and I think that they'll now have that
well they now know your heart rate don't
know my heart rate and my location yes
they know where you shop they know where
yeah they know where I shop they didn't
know what I would do anyways you've got
an Android phone so they know where you
are yeah yeah but I which works
fantastically this is why a Starbucks
opened up on my route to work right as
they knew where I where I travel if it
knows health things about me sure and
I'm okay with that
Google doesn't know health things about
me hmm
right like okay doesn't know how I sleep
at night Fitbit does it knows exactly
how well I saw that's interesting right
Google might find out that I am more apt
to buy something when I've had less than
seven hours of sleep sure and then they
say that they're not gonna push they say
that they can say that they're not
idiots though no they'll find a way why
were Google I would say that yeah of
course they'd say that truth of the
matter is that there has to be true now
like I weigh my I weigh myself daily on
my Fitbit scale okay if my weight goes
up Google's now gonna send me something
new jeans oh my goodness I'm not sure
about this whole Fitbit and Google
marriage even though I love both of them
I don't know which one I need to break
up with even in our chat room no man
five is having trouble with this whole
marriage of Google and Fitbit saying
that he's thinking about stopping using
his Fitbit just
because of this and I see at first when
I first heard this story it was DJ
wheels that sent it to me first when I
first heard the story I was excited oh
yes because I love both of them but yeah
and then I kind of like let it marinate
a little bit inside my head and I
thought no I don't want like Fitbit
knows details about my house like they
know my might what I eat my liquid input
mostly because I add that in but
drinking of water exactly yeah
they know yes sleep but Google knows my
driving habits because that Google Maps
well now it's all I don't see Salah data
together what if I don't sleep well no
accent right I'm gonna know that ah the
government is involved they will because
Google's gonna buy your insurance
company
you watch cuz they're just buying up
companies like that yeah it gets
complicated when you start thinking okay
well now am I gonna be declined
something that I want like say some sort
of critical illness insurance because
now they can see that I don't eat right
or sleep well or I do I do all of those
very well but this is it this is
hypothetical or you know if my BMI has
been increasing or my heart rates a
little off the chart it's an interesting
thought and it really sounds sci-fi to
me yeah but we're seeing it take place
like we're at that early stage of this
right but then at the same time it's
kind of cool to think that they would be
able to monitor the heart rate of
everybody in a traffic jam and it makes
absolutely sense as an acquisition Oh
Google needed to make this move and
Fitbit needed it Fitbit has been not
fabulous and I'll just say that Fitbit
was on its way down so Fitbit will have
gone out of business so if you love
Fitbit if you use your Fitbit device
well think of it this way Google saved
it so your device is gonna keep working
thanks to Google yes
plain and simple I'm just having a
really hard time with it it feels very
I think what you're gonna have to do
Sasha and viewers who use Fitbit is keep
an eye on the changes in the privacy
terms keep an eye on the terms and
service keep an eye on changes in the
rights that they have access to your
data and what they're allowed to use
that data for because as they've said so
there's clever wording here and think
about that and you're not going to hear
this on traditional news media but
there's clever wording here when they're
saying we are not going to use your data
for this and that yeah we're not gonna
use it for ads by no we're not there's a
ton of other things I could use it but
we're going to collect that data yeah so
remember they're collecting it they're
holding on to it it is part of the data
the data set that is you and then as
those terms and conditions change five
years from now when people forget about
the acquisition yeah and just trust that
this thing is working if they don't read
those terms and conditions now all of a
sudden well I am getting new gene
advertising or I am getting some skewed
results when I google things
yeah or how integrated might have become
with the medical industry and I say that
because Fitbit recently sent me a little
push notification did you know that you
can print yourself a report to take to
your doctor yeah that's cool though
that's me so I did it I didn't print a
PDF printed it but and I loved it I
thought well I don't have any need to go
to the doctor right now but if I did I
would bring this and it shows tracking
of your highs and your lows of every
marker and your how'd you sleep last
night well here you go check out my
report exactly this is the worst sleep
I've ever had the best sleep I've ever
had and here's the average I love it but
at what points is the doctor
automatically get that I supposed to be
sharing in write to me calls me up and
says you need to come in because I've
noticed that your heart rates off the
charts I've got I've noticed that AI is
told me hey Robbie your BMI is really
high yeah I was crazy right too much
alcohol in your system
it's it's a little bit like like
Minority Report or something can it can
get that one yeah yeah we've got to take
a quick break the crypto report and more
of this week's top tech stories are
coming up don't go anywhere
the category 5 TV newsroom and looking
at the crypto market Sasha and how
things have changed over the past week
as far as the category 5 crypto report
goes so you can find that a category 5
dot TV slash crypto report things have
not really changed a lot however Bitcoin
has lost a fair bet losing over $500
it's down at eight thousand seven
hundred and seventy eight dollars at 71
cents US dollars that's the value of a
single Bitcoin we're still looking for
Libra but it's not trading yet we've got
litecoin also losing a dollar sixty one
it's a sixty one dollars and forty-five
cents we've got the etherium coin which
is the only coin that we are currently
tracking that gained this week gaining
just a little bit it's up at 186 twenty
Manero is at sixty two dollars and 89
cents pretty much on par with where it
was last week Scala is at zero point two
nine ten thousandth of a cent and turtle
coin interestingly about midweek last
week we saw it starting to spike we saw
it starting to climb and I was like what
is happening are we finally going to the
moon and then it dropped back down
that's the thing with the crypto report
is that I wonder what happens from week
to week because like Bitcoin or turtle
coin could just be like okay kind of the
same for one week to the next because it
is so crazy and those micro coins really
can fluctuate so you can get really
really excited about the turtle coin
because like a fluctuation when you're
talking about ten thousandth of a cent
could only be a one cent fluctuation but
it's huge as far as graphs go right when
you look at Bitcoin which is hovering
around $9,000 per coin a a one cent
differential it's not gonna make a
difference whatsoever so but do remember
as sasha was saying like it's always
moving it's always changing the crypto
market never closes it's open 24/7 that
means if I go to bed at night thinking
I'm doing really really well with my
crypto currency I could get up in the
morning and it's completely skewed the
other way so
when you invest when you spend anything
on cryptocurrency our recommendation
here category 5 TV is to only spend what
you can afford to lose it is a gamble to
get involved in cryptocurrency
whatsoever I will say in in the crypto
report my favorite is turtle coin only
because I can I love the name I can just
picture slow and steady these tiny
little baby turtles that just like
erupted from their shells and the beachy
sand exactly how it works to the ocean
and they're trying so hard that's all
you have to just stand by the ocean and
wait and go to the moon yes we're on our
way there folks
Microsoft edge is coming to linux news
that a linux port of the chromium based
edge browser is on the way isn't too
much of a surprise given that Microsoft
developers have teased the possibility
several times before they've previously
gone on record as saying that edge for
Linux is something that we'd like to do
and something that would happen
eventually they even launched a survey
to scope out feedback on the idea from
existing Linux users but now edge for
Linux is official and Microsoft says it
will be out next year when Microsoft
announced it was rebuilding its edge
browser on top of the crop of chromium
the likelihood of a native Linux port
increased substantially due to the
cross-platform nature of the codebase
after all an assortment of chromium
based web browsers already support Linux
including Google Chrome Vivaldi Opera
Yandex and SR SR where iron for its part
though Microsoft seems to be
understanding how open-source works
edge has become an active contributing
member to the chromium open source
project which means work done for edge
can in turn benefit other browsers
including ones you might actually want
to use mmm I'm actually glad that you
made that statement because the whole
time you're talking I'm thinking
who cares yeah it's like Microsoft
doesn't at all understand the industry
and this is Microsoft yeah nobody and I
speak generally I may be generalizing
here but nobody who is proficient enough
on their computer to be a proficient
Linux user wants edge no period zero
however then you said that they're
contributing back to open-source and it
may assess the chromium project and so
I'm like okay that's kinda nice of them
if it's good I want to see their commits
I want to see their PRS I want to see
what they're contributing back and
whether it's actually worth our while
is there any they would ever do
something where they weren't getting
more than they were giving Microsoft
yeah come on no they own github so
they're always going to be getting more
than they're giving period
yeah period and they have machine
learning and they have a a I that can
culminate the data on github and pull it
all into their own projects for sure
it's it's not surprising I don't think I
do have Windows 10 on a couple of my
computers at work I have to for certain
things yeah and I don't use edge on
those because it sucks and nobody should
use edge I don't think does anybody
actually use edge does anybody I think
the only people that I've ever
encountered Sasha who use edge and you
can correct me if it like if you're a
die-hard edge lover please look you can
correct me but I think that the only
people who use it are those who
accidentally use it yeah they look at
the e and they think it's Internet
Explorer because they're so novice that
they don't understand yeah I feel like
anything about anything if I was on edge
be like I was standing in a desert
anybody out there if you're on your as
some people might be thinking oh but I
think I use the e the blue e and if you
do bring up the blue e and type in
install Chrome yeah and just see what
happens and it's interesting that when
you do that edge will say well but edge
is faster and edge is better
that's like dude just back off man
this is like this is like the needy
boyfriend right that's like oh I please
give me another chance
are you sure I felt like that Facebook
did that to me when I broke up oh dear
no like Chrome Firefox I'm not I'm not
in love with Firefox right now much
lillas making some really bad decisions
but that is you know that's between me
and Firefox I will have it out
eventually I use Chrome for the most
part I feel like I only use Chrome
always yeah I think I think also the
integration of Google's software
Google's services because I've been
using Google Drive a lot Google Docs and
so that's where I do a lot of my because
I can open them just like having word
YES on all of my computers doesn't
matter if they're Linux Windows Mac
doesn't matter and so I love that and
doesn't even matter if they're powerful
enough or I don't have to have software
licenses I just log in and I'm in so I
do like Chrome for that
I definitely love it yeah this is not a
Chrome advertisement this is an anti my
love for Chrome runs deep but understand
though ok so just quickly because I know
we've gotta move on ok but chrome which
we love is based on chromium yes edge
which we despised is based on chromium
they're both pulling that the same
underlying software rights Microsoft
edge browser is dead Microsoft
themselves have killed it and said this
sucks
Microsoft said that not verbatim however
they said we're no longer gonna develop
it based on our own codebase we're gonna
base it on the same codebase the chrome
uses right we're gonna our edge is
sucking so bad we're gonna make it based
on Chrome
so they're actually edges based on
Chrome now basically just like a chrome
echo should change the name yeah so I'm
just like so putting that into
perspective so yeah they might give back
and we'll see what they give back but I
think it's all just nobody Ballu nobody
wants it oh don't put it on Linux but
and have that bothers me because no
Linux user wants edge right all right I
would assume so correct us for I want to
be correct us if you love Linux and also
edge let me know and I will wonder about
yours I will pray for you know but what
bothers me about this is that I feel
like this is one of those tactics by a
big company that's going to say we tried
Linux Adobe we tried Linux and it just
game developers oh we tried linic right
yeah
and well it didn't really fly well so we
tried Linux we brought our edge browser
to Linux and people didn't like it so
we're just we're just not going to
support the open source it just feels
like that no no what they're not stupid
yeah nobody wants edge on Linux yeah
nobody so correct me if I'm wrong that's
how I feel so it feels like this is a
tactic they're saying here's edge for
Linux here you go
install and enjoy Oh nobody installed it
oh I guess
well Linux is not ik is not for no you
know we're not gonna support Linux we're
not gonna put our investment dollars
into Linux
our development time doesn't it feel
that way yeah that's just my opinion
it's not based on anything factual like
a five-year update on this story we're
like oh we were wrong let's look at
everybody Robbie's like I'm gonna show
you the latest features an edge finally
here we are five years later we have
plugins the late James Dean is getting
digitally restored for an upcoming movie
and many on the internet including Chris
Evans aren't happy magic city films as
announced that thanks to movie magic
technology it has Castine in its
upcoming drama finding Jack but he died
in a car crash in 1955 when he was just
24 years old Dean only appeared in three
feature films before his death and has
been cast posthumously as a secondary
character in the coming Vietnam War
drama fans of the actor words exactly
excited about the news on social media
Zelda Williams actor and daughter of the
late Robin Williams tweeted quote
publicity stunts or not this is
puppeteering of the dead for their clout
alone and it sets such an awful
precedent for the future of performance
end quote their recently launched
production house Magic City films
obtained the rights to use Dean's image
from his family co-director Anton Ernst
says quote we feel very honored that his
family supports us and will take every
precaution to ensure that his legacy as
one of the most epic film stars to date
is kept firmly intact and quote while
finding Jack will be a live action
Dean's performance will be constructed
VF full-body CGI using actual footage
and photos another actor will voice him
unbelievable that we're there yeah I
mean we've seen deep fakes yeah they're
incredible
mind-blowing now they're going to create
the actor and and I know that
it's been done before in some ways oh
yeah we've seen performances done by
major stars oh yeah yeah but this is
taking somebody who created films in the
50s bringing him back to life in color I
am NOT opposed to this okay I am NOT
opposed to this I like it actually and
you've expressed an interest in this
type of technology before yes it feels a
little tiny bit black mirror but yes but
it has enough time passed though I could
say he's 88 or eight years old I feel
like and I might be speaking out of turn
but if I were James Dean and 88 years
old I would want to see myself as a
youth as a youth yes like who what that
I would I think that this will be an
incredible I'm assuming they'll be
honoring him if they're not gonna be
doing something that's the idea right
like I know it would be different if
they were I guess throwing them dragging
him through the mud but no the idea here
is they're making his fourth movie
that's the idea like that's the premise
here is that James Dean will be this one
of the stars not the leading role but a
star in his fourth movie I I am all for
this because I would like for that to be
able to happen for me or for you sure
you could have the night off tonight
right day after I pass long from now 100
years from now wouldn't it be so cool to
be like this is what Sasha was like
younger generation like voiced by
Gilbert Godfrey also do this also for
River Phoenix and I realized you'll
probably need to get his family's sure
well that's too soon I don't know we're
talking about though James Dean Dean
right and could we start to see and and
that's a that's a whole ethical dilemma
too right
like when does a human's persona become
public domain well is that even a thing
right but that's gonna help if it were
Disney's that would never happen because
Disney likes to keep it don't you think
that's going to happen we're at the
point now where so much time has passed
since recorded history began and I don't
mean like recorded on a stone tablet I
mean recorded like video audio we're
getting to that point where soon it's
gonna be a hundred years on then it's
gonna be a hundred and fifty years on in
my children's generation like we're
looking 100 hundred hundred and thirty
years on for some of these actors and
yeah when are we going to see those
actors rebirthed and brought back and
where is the the moral compass when it
comes to that I just up to the estate
make that decision I suppose I think
it's up to the estate I think once
you've kind of lent yourself to film you
are now part of film like I feel like
there is that and that's hard for us to
accept but we're seeing I mean yeah when
you're when you're like I know that a
celeb that I know it's puppeteering of
the dead but yeah but it's no different
than splicing clips of you know save
Robin Williams to say well that he
didn't say no what anybody would have
done that but that's what to be fair to
Zelda I wouldn't bring back Robin
Williams not now not yet it's fresh 80
years from now yes or 50 years from now
maybe that's acceptable yeah but not now
yeah right I think it's funny that Chris
Evans did voice is concerned Thank You
Captain America and and a lot of folks
have but I even saw Bette Midler
tweeting she was she was joking about
how white male actors get jobs even if
they're dead like that's
and it's like with the technology but I
think to myself wouldn't Bette Midler
want to do a movie with her own self but
younger how cool would that be
woollen Will Smith is doing that in a
manner of speaking what he has a movie
that is just that where he's Co acting
with his 20 year old self which is
really kind of me that's kind of similar
technology right it might be still alive
so he can give the a okay and he can act
the second actor and let me just DHT
it's a little bit of a different
technology for sure obviously but I love
it mm-hmm I'd like to see how it goes
will you see it will you watch the movie
that's the and this is a question for
the community comment below would you
watch it James Dean starring in a new
movie in 2020 would you watch it or is
there an ethical dilemma that prevents
you from feeling right about watching
and supporting that would that be there
is no ethical I know I don't feel like
there's an ethical I do say that a
little bit like I personally will
probably I'd be very interested to see
it but there are those who are really
uncool with bringing back an actor who
has passed and I can understand that
I can I can respect that I I have a
heart I'm so pro the process then it's
hard for me to see the flip side of it
it's hard for me to see the side that's
bad about bringing back to light
somebody who obviously love to entertain
and let them continue to do so comment
below let us know what you think
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with ass white Linux
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at patreon.com slash
newsroom from the category-five TV
newsroom and
sure Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson
thanks for being here with us again this
week hey the shows not over folks we've
got one more thing to show you
stick around this is category five
technology TV you know me if you watch
the show
and I am very keen on reusing and and
fixing things rather than discarding and
replacing like I want to learn so badly
I want to learn how to be able to fix a
broken television so that it doesn't end
up in a landfill or even a waste where
it's torn down and who knows where the
parts end up I want to be able to fix
those things and then I can reuse them
and it's super cheap I found a monitor
on the e-waste pile and I took it apart
and found the problem with it it was in
the power supply
three little capacitors cost me $12 to
fix it right yeah perfect my Christmas
lights aren't working I mean spend like
eight bucks to replace the bulbs that
need to be replaced rather than the $80
that it would cost me to replace all the
strands yeah so you feel good there's
pride in the work that you've done
you've minimized it's a lot more works
but it's more fulfilling right and yeah
there is that I feel a very big sense of
accomplishment and I'll be honest every
time I plug an ethernet cord into the
the switch that I fixed because I got a
switch for free it was gonna go in the
dump yeah and I grabbed it and I figured
out what was wrong with it and I resaw
turd the capacitors that needed
replacing that cost me a couple bucks on
Amazon to buy the capacitors and so
every time I use that switch that I
fixed I feel good about it yes I feel
like I save that from the landfill and I
feel really good but sometimes there are
things in life that we can't reuse or we
can't repair we can't fix
uh-huh like like well I'm a bit of a
coffee drinker centra yes but that you
are some of you might be able to relate
I always have a cup of coffee in front
of me in my office I have a coffee maker
where I just make pot after pot mm-hmm I
really do at home however we have a
Couric okay a lot of you do it's
convenient it works really well it makes
a great cup of coffee and then and then
you end up like this I have I have a
ziploc bag that is some of the pods and
your heart just like it hurts a little
when you look at this this is from
Sunday so I was not all me come on come
on I got three kids and a wife at home
right some of the kids probably don't
drink coffee no but there are hot
chocolates okay look at that hot
chocolate salted caramel mmm right am i
right like Keurig is pretty decent not
an advertisement for Couric what I want
to talk to you about is what we're
putting into the landfill right so I the
reason I have a hard time with loving
Keurig is look at how big that is that's
a big hunk of plastic with some metal
and other stuff yeah all right that's
bananas so quickly cap five dot TV slash
coffee there's gonna be a link for
everything that I'm mentioning here yes
everybody in the chatroom is using okay
one of the things that I do love about
Keurig is that you can get pods that are
refillable and reusable and clean and
those are awesome you just put one scoop
coffee yeah okay so this one which is a
cat5 dot TV slash coffee now I've tried
multiple I'm showing you only the best
okay this one does not require a filter
this is like that reusable filter so you
just rinse it out and then let it dry
and then reuse it there's no need to buy
filters for this so the only result of
this is compost just the coffee grounds
yeah that's it okay
Prince Ryu you can also put tea in it
and everything else so this is fantastic
however I still like the convenience of
the Keurig coffee pods and I also like
to be able to have variety yeah but then
what do I do well I don't want to sound
like a bit of a dork like hey well you
could be using this and saving the
environment well but I'm also realistic
okay
I do want salted careful I really really
do this is fantastic okay so have these
buy these if you use Keurig you have to
get these because they are fantastic you
just fill it up with coffee you put it
in and I use actually espresso and I
pack it down a little bit and don't pack
it down too much because then it's gonna
be too much pressure and it's not gonna
come out but if you just pack it down a
little bit it's gonna give you a pretty
good cup of espresso it's not as good as
like a real cappuccino machine but it's
okay it's pretty good yeah and it's
reusable and there's no waste okay so
that's pretty good but I do I'm
realistic I'm not gonna pretend that
that's all I do because I do buy these
okay and I buy them in bulk and a lot of
us do there's real yeah but the pods
they they build up on the counter
they're a pain in the butt to recycle
they are recyclable okay okay but
they're not recyclable like this I have
a cup here for a reason a bowl here for
a reason they're not recyclable like
this you can't just throw that in the
recycle bin
it's got I'm getting coffee grounds all
over yeah yeah I'm still making a mess
you could peel the top off it's a pain
and when you have what I showed you
there the bag from just one day's use
yeah that would be a fair bit of work to
try to figure out how to how to get that
clean so I said yes
wouldn't it be nice pakka my wife if
they made some kind of cutter that would
allow you to easily make this right to
fix this so that it can be recycled and
then I got on Amazon and I found it and
it exists it was my idea but somebody
else already thought of it thought of it
first and probably patented it and made
it okay so that's all it looks like it's
got no
lades that pop out when you squeeze and
I'm just gonna try it right here live on
the air hey because this is good TV
so we all know how these are to recycle
their pain in the butt you try to get
the lid off the top off and it's really
really tough so I'm just gonna snap that
on there this is a used cake up and turn
that's all there is to it
now presumably I'm gonna do that over
top of the green bin the green bin right
what you can see that that took no
effort whatsoever and then it's
recyclable it's a I'm making a little
bit of a mess because I am you know just
doing it but yes that's now you know
give that a rinse and throw it in the
recycle you want to see the inside okay
grab it has a filter in it yeah it does
yeah I'm gonna grab another one here
this one is from a chocolate-covered
cherry hot hot cocoa okay
so just simply have one of these cap 5tv
slash coffee and you're gonna be a and I
know I'm just getting a couple of here
because I'm trying to show the camera at
the same time you're gonna do this over
your your compost or whatever and it's
as simple as I'm just simply turning the
cake up within the blick this blade
apparatus and that's it
this one I guess the hot chocolates
don't really have anything in them oh
yeah cuz they're not caffeinated yeah
but well there's no filter and there's
no coffee grounds it was probably like
an instant mix right but you can see how
that just took the top right off there's
no effort to it I'm just chatting away
and there we go
so this is another way that with my
Keurig I can really really help the
environment and I do care about that a
lot and I want you to as well this is
something that it only costs you a
couple of bucks you're going to replace
it every couple of months it does come
with two so maybe every every three to
six months and with that you're gonna be
able to really really quickly and easily
recycle these okay so and put them in
the in the compost like put the grounds
in the compost put the the plastic in
the recycle and then you're done as easy
as that boom
right just do it don't even think about
it if you use Keurig you've got to do
this so that's at cat5 dot TV slash
coffee folks and incidentally I'll just
say that would make a really great both
of these would make a really great
stocking stuffer exactly you know the
coffee lover on your list that probably
has a Keurig device anyways
so there you have it so but that's all
the time that we have this week Wow we
covered how to recycle coffee pots we
covered some really amazing stuff this
feels like the end of like romper room
where I'm just like I see I see Marsh
man I see a marriage roit I see the foo
and no man five I love the smell of
coffee yeah it smells so good but that
as I say that's all the time that we
have this week folks
next week I'm really really excited
because our patrons and supporters came
together and helped us to be able to
replace the broadcast server that we use
here at category five TV and with that
now I actually filmed the process of
putting it together I've got to condense
that down into a one-hour special and
that's happening next week so if you
want to see how that came together the
parts that went into it the decisions
that were made and we're gonna discuss
it as well we're gonna find out all
about the new broadcast rig here at
category five technology TV that is next
week but for this week hey we're on
Twitter follow us at category five TV
I'm personally on twitter at robbie
ferguson and don't forget to Like and
subscribe to us on YouTube and every
other platform that we exist on please
seek us out on every platform like us
subscribe to us and give us the thumb
do you know that would mean the world to
us great how many here folks take care
