I want to get a new network switch I
want to get one that is going to have 16
ports that will come for me yeah I've
got 14 names Linux servers online right
now that I'm having to you know patch in
and then unplug when they're not in use
so 16 16 then because you're gonna be
adding well remember I'm adding I want
to add salt yes so I'm gonna supplement
what I already have right with another
16 so 16 ports which would do lot of
keeping real by the end of the year yeah
at least they're 50 bucks anyways for
like a 10 over 100 cheap good switch
alright you can get gigabit switches
that's fine but for what I'm doing 10
over 100 is gonna be fine fast ethernet
is great um so I have one Jeff alright
that was given to me a long time ago
because say that looks old
hey no I said this is a DSS 16 plus from
d-link it's no it's just a rack mount
switch it doesn't look like this you
know we didn't like unbox it yes yeah I
see now but it was given to me because
it doesn't work doesn't do a thing you
plug it in and it just doesn't even
power on really yeah so let's throw it
out right let's put that in the landfill
and see if it decomposes most people do
yeah but do we need to do that should I
just go to Amazon and spend 50 bucks
plus tax plus shipping whatever else fix
it or should we see if it's worth
tinkering I feel like I should blow it
up right now and say yeah throw it out
I'm gonna skip over here really yeah and
Here I am
tada okay so this is just a 16 port dead
switch that doesn't work whatsoever
doesn't even fire up but the question
that we want to answer is hey am i and
I'm using me as the example but are we
are U&amp;I capable of just making it go is
there something we could do to make this
work let's jump in here
and there you have it that is the
internal look of d-link DSS - 16 plus
cd-rom that was an unboxing of sorts so
we're gonna get a quick look at the
circuitry here so the switch itself
everything looks
preme and proper Oh Robbie's been in
there before you can tell so looking at
the caps
these are capacitors everything looks
great yeah everything looks perfect that
it looks brand-new inside doesn't it it
does not a speck of dust let's get over
to this unit over here and this ladies
and gentlemen is obviously what do you
what do you suspect it is yeah it's the
power this is the power supply so the
first thing that I noticed when I check
this out Jeff capacitor here is good
yeah these two capacitors have ruptured
oh yeah I don't see that why would that
happen power overload maybe they didn't
happen yeah precisely I mean if there's
too much power going through a capacitor
the electrons are gonna shoot across
from plate to plate instead of holding
on on the plate
they're not it's not going to take a
charge instead it's going to the the
electricity is gonna flow through it and
burst the capacitor so these two
capacitors are dead they aren't gonna
operate and it's not going to work so
let's see what we need to do here let's
pull this apart and I'm just gonna this
is the ground screw here you want to be
careful when you're doing this because
remember capacitors do hold a charge so
I have not had this plugged in in a long
time but I'm still going to be very
careful with those capacitors because
they could hold a pretty good voltage in
there that could give you a pretty good
shock I mean a bigger one than this
could be deadly so please be very very
careful keep yourself grounded and know
kind of what you're doing
kind of yeah
just know kind of what you're doing is a
good start you can tell them you heard
that here get all the screws out so I
can basically I'm just removing the
power supply so the temptation tends to
be and and an option is in fact that we
could replace the power supply because
that easiest row that would fix it Jeff
and if you send it away to a repair shop
that's gonna charge you probably as much
as I could buy it for 50 bucks then
that's probably you know that could be
what they're going to do but this is
literally everything else looks perfect
so I've inspected the capacitors and
resistors and everything else everything
looks fine except for those two ruptured
capacitors right so I have discharged
these but you would never touch the
contacts here because as I said they
could have electricity still within the
capacitor we're gonna be looking in that
next week
don't you worry I'm going to show you
how to discharge those safely in the
meantime these capacitors being burnt
out what I need to do is I need to look
at the capacitor itself get really
really tight in here and you're gonna
see a couple of things first of all the
voltage is 10 volts okay that's
important we don't want a 48 volt
capacitor and it's 1,000 UF so those are
the capacitors that I need in order to
replace this so $50 to replace the
switch on Amazon five of these
particular capacitors 10 volt 1000 UF
are going to be $8 Wow $8 so tune in
next week we're gonna see if my mad
soldering skills is gonna be enough to
save this switch one week later so over
here we've got all the parts out just
like we did last week and you see I got
the the capacitors in from Amazon these
are a dollar
the per capacitor so we're gonna find
out if this is going to be worth our
while here is the power supply Jeff you
remember me taking this out yes yeah
first thing I want to do is I want to
check if there is a charge on these
capacitors so the old capacitors I mean
they're only ten volts but so we're
basically doing this for you know you
may be dealing with 300 volt capacitors
in our case okay they're giving they're
registering DC volts of zero there is a
big capacitor on here let's check that
one and it registers zero point zero
zero two volts I'm not gonna get a shock
from that I mentioned that I might want
to show you how to discharge a capacitor
at 10 volts you're probably not going to
get a shock from that anyways and you
could probably short-circuit it and just
and it will discharge safely especially
because of the fact that I'm not going
to be reusing these capacitors I'm
actually going to be pulling them so I'm
not too concerned about about them but
you may want to look on youtube there
are better people than me to teach you
that I need to make sure because I'm
gonna be doing desoldering I need to
make sure my soldering iron is
reasonably hot so a little bit hotter
than when I'm soldering especially
because I'm going to be using a wicking
like a desoldering wick in order to
remove this solder I've got my helping
hands here and I'm curious if this is
gonna help me or hinder me it looks a
little bit like I probably do well my
name alone it should be helping you
would expect so so oh all right so do i
DC solder now do I start heating things
up no hmm what I need to do first
yeah Jeff you hit it we need some rosin
paste flux so what this is going to do
this is like a little paste that I'm
gonna I'm gonna put on the solder joints
I need to put this on before I D solder
as well as soldering because this is
going to protect those solder joints
from from the heat in such a way that
you know I'm still going to be able to
use those solder joints so it you know
that we're dumbing it down here today
because I'm dumb when it comes
I'm learning mr sztyc i am using a stir
stick and that that leads me to my next
point Jeff you can purchase some amazing
tools for applying flux or you can run
to your local coffee shop and grab a
copy first yeah you know what you don't
need anything fancy for this and in fact
I'm using my hands here you might want
to be careful here I've got a 400-degree
soldering iron I'm going to be pretty
quick with this so I'm not afraid that
I'm gonna burn myself but this is
probably not the wisest way to do it if
you're from a health and safety company
yeah so what I need to do is I with the
flux on there I'm heating up those
soldering joints to pull off that
capacitor so that's one of the dead
capacitors okay
easy peasy that's what we looked at last
week and let's grab the other one on and
through the magic of television I can
actually speed this up a little bit for
you and there you go let's get a quick
look at the capacitor itself so that's
blown you can see how that's been burst
and that is a 10 volt 1000 micro farad
capacitor so I ordered the the
replacements off of Amazon at a dollar
sixty each there were eight dollars for
five of them and I'm gonna I can
actually put those on there so let's
let's get some more some more flux based
on all the flux now Jeff because we're
working with flux and capacitors does
that make this a flux capacitor you know
what this is a desoldering wick Oh and
what this this is why I need my
soldering iron about 50 degrees hotter
than if I was soldering because I'm
actually going to remove the solder from
those joints so just by applying the
heat to the wick now it's actually
pulling the solder out of that and is so
cool yeah it just kind of sucks it right
out of there so just give it a quick
second you can actually feel the the
solder turn to liquid underneath the
wick and and that's when you can pull it
away that's awesome
there you go so see those holes are wide
open now
get the the second set there from the
from the other capacitor there's two
identical 10 volt capacitors that I need
to redo you know as you're just pulling
that solder off Marshman doesn't like
our back of the future joke oh come on
it was good I thought it was good you
know it was good good TV right here you
know we're serious
so have you removed all the solder now
yes the solder is gone here let me show
you Jeff okay so I'm just cleaning out
the flux paste there and you see those
holes there yeah so clean now it's nice
and clean right Wow
but because I used the flux it's not
damaged right so I'm gonna and notice
I'm doing this in in double time I've
got two replacement capacitors here same
thing 10 volt 1000 microfarad soar as I
said last week uf which I said just to
be safe and because that's what I
ordered off of Amazon you'll notice that
it has a negative side and it's
important to make sure that you get the
the polarity correct and I'll show you a
little bit I'll show you how obviously i
double-checked that when i took off the
other one but notice the the minus sign
on one side and also the the leg the
shorter one is negative and the longer
one is positive okay that just always
well not always sometimes they come and
they're not it's not quite as obvious
what the clarity is but you should have
I haven't I think I've always seen them
with the negative side see how it's
painted on there but the lake should be
positive is longer and I've just bent
the legs a little bit to hold them in
place for for soldering well that makes
sense
smart yeah it works tighten those up
make sure that they're in there good and
more flux flux capacitors looks so much
like hair wax it doesn't yeah and it
doesn't apply like paint flux a little
bit that's gonna just like turn it into
a liquid there you go
and again that just protects the joints
and make sure that you're not
overheating the joints and I don't know
it's some kind of magic and it does it
really helps to make sure the solder
works really really well mm-hmm though
here I'm not having quite as much
success looking at the tip of my
soldering iron it's kind of its kind of
weapon up on the end of the tip which I
want to avoid so I'll just grab my just
like a dollar store wire cleaner there
and clean off the tip you don't have
again you don't have to buy the thirty
dollar soldering component to clean off
the tip of your soldering iron you know
you're starting to make this look really
easy
well I'm trying Jeff I'm getting I'm
getting a little bit better I'm so I'm
heating it up a little bit heating it up
heating it up and then applying the
solder and pulling up and now we've got
a good joint there let's heat it up heat
it up heat it up and then apply the
solder there we go and nice all right do
the same thing on this one and there we
go perfect okay now I guess you know
final quick little wipe there now I only
had some some paper towel handy you
probably want to get some nicer cotton
wipes or something like that but there
you go there's there's my soldering job
good much cleaner right Sasha yeah ah
I'm getting there and getting there
there we go why okay so now we're gonna
grab our snips here and get rid of the
excess on the capacitors they're you
know eggs are the capacitors buuuut so
if this works we've taken what would be
a fifty dollar replacement and we've
pulled this thing out of the landfill
and for what just just over three
dollars the cost of a good cup of coffee
we've replaced the capacitors and um
hopefully we're good to go now I've got
some isopropyl 99.9 percent pure alcohol
this is just to kind of clean up that
residue of the flux that's been and
that's my flight to the board it's not
gonna hurt it no that won't hurt it
Sasha no calm and that will actually
just that's just a cleaner a solvent to
clean off let's just get this open it's
brand new bottle so this is just gonna
clean off the flux a little bit again
I've only got paper towel handy you want
to have something a little better than
that I'll buy a couple of nice cloths in
order to do my cleanup but that'll just
help to dissolve the the residual flux
and it's not gonna be perfect with a
paper towel but it'll at least get the
job done every day all right let's get a
look at that see how that looks all
right there we go so the kind of the
orange discoloration that's the flux
itself so I got I you know I could do a
better cleaning job but there you go
there's my capacitors installed with the
correct polarity haha soldered right on
there and my solder joints look just as
good as the ones that are on the board
so I'm happy about that and let's get
doing some cleanup okay all right
cleanup complete and we are ready to go
that's the final product there you are
look at that so beautiful brand-new
dollar 60 capacitors on my power circuit
so this is the transformer circuit that
I'm reinstalling into the network switch
now should you have not checked to make
sure that the there was an electrical
current to make sure you did this right
or did how so Jeff well do you know like
first when we check to make sure that
there was no charge or anything is
should is there a way to check to make
sure that the capacitor you used is a
valid Oh like that I made a good joint
yeah well I should be able to tell when
I like I connected it and I didn't
damage the the the like where I was
soldering it into on the circuit board
right and so I made good contact there
and I can tell that by visually looking
okay I'm so should be good but we'll
find out so let's put back together
positives are in let's find it it if it
is actually successful we're going to
that right after the break whether you
shop on thinkgeek gearbest B&amp;H photo
video eBay or Amazon or even if you want
a free trial of audible you'll find the
best deals and support the shows we
produce by simply visiting the shopping
sites you already frequent by using the
links on our website visit category-five
TV slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching welcome back to
category 5 technology TV we have
finished soldering the capacitors we saw
me it's a team effort I was here
cheering you on anyways let's go back
over to Robi soo okay okay let's jump
over to this so I've got everything put
together I'm gonna put the chassis back
together here because I am believing in
the job that I have done here today
Thank You Marsh man for the blue smoke
it's not happening today come on I
really I did a decent job I think it I
think it's gonna work I think it's gonna
work okay so there it is it's all back
together let's crab the power cable and
moment of truth let's throw 110 volts
into this bad boy looking for the smoke
uh-huh
well I put the case on so you're not
gonna see any smoke oh we got the power
I see the light all right but no other
lights are on because we have no
Ethernet cables plugged in let's see if
I can track down a hot Ethernet cable
here yeah there's one through the magic
of television my friend Jeff all right
let's plug it in let's see what what's
gonna happen here all right look and
click and number one is lit up yes sir
oh man
let's move it around let's see if we've
got a good ten over 100 switch here oh
yeah I've is lit up look at us look at
how smart we are
Wow oh wow the things that get us
excited guys
Hey look at this well you know why I'm
excited here Jeff cuz now you can use it
for the studio this was gonna be no this
for my raspberry PI's for my pine
sixty-four boys look at that this is
this room is pcs I have 14 of them yeah
you need 16 I really do
alright wow that's exciting I can't jump
right back over um so I mean you said it
was what about $3 in parts so here's the
thing Jeff this is it so $50 would
replace this Network sweat right mm-hmm
and sure okay that's what we're tempted
to do or maybe like twenty to forty
dollars I could replace the power
circuit board that is built into that
and and then I could replace that and
I'd feel like hey it was a bit of a DIY
job or for a dollar sixty per capacitor
on Amazon and it only took two days to
arrive
and I can fix it myself very potentially
now this was a very very simple fix and
I was fortunate in this case that had
happened to be a simple fix having
removed the cover from it last week I
saw you and I saw together yeah it was a
small little board and it was pretty
obvious that there were two capacitors
that were print out on the board oh the
nice little bubble on the top yeah
exactly but isn't that often the case
well yeah it quite often is and so you
take it to a repair shop and you'll pay
$100 or $200 to get something fixed or
in this case it's like okay well it's
only $50 to replace it let's just buy a
new one
mm-hmm for three dollars and change I
bought the parts and saved it from the
landfill and saved it from that's it I
could replace it or I could what but it
would still like that's not gonna
biodegrade right anyways we'll recycle
it sure but right but even at the same
time just the time that it took to do
that it was probably less time than
hopping in the car heading to the store
picking out the moss
replacement coming back like in that
same timeframe like if you just have the
capacitor sitting around at home yeah
you know you'd be like oh this faster
than going to the store
absolutely and actually in the in the
chat I was looking back at the chat last
week Marsh man said well didn't you go
to say Al and did they not have the
capacitors and it was exactly that it's
like if I can sit down on Amazon buy it
for a dollar 60 a cap and it'll be here
two days later and and here we are a
week later we've we've made the repair
and that is your yeah you fix two big
things I did it you really fix it fix it
guy well and and you can you can laugh
or you can be like whoa Robby sucks at
soldering and so I this being you this
is your thoughts that I'm putting into
your head I can do this I can take
something apart and I can figure out how
to fix it and it's like that is
liberating sure yes that is exciting
because I have a big old TV that's
sitting here yeah Jeff you want to grab
a sign of this air hold on yeah you got
a big old TV right here it was given to
us for free
yeah because its power supply has a
burnt out what capacitor yes sir yeah
that's a beast yeah but it's it's a free
TV I can do it major we need to fix it
so I mean all that to say hey we did it
here live on the show a little bit more
than real time but but it can be done
yes you can do it I mean just gotta have
the right tool so a couple of things
that I needed in order to make this
repair happen of course there's the
dollar sixty capacitors mm-hmm you need
them by the red capacitors I wanted to
have a soldering iron that I could
adjust the temperature of now we've
reviewed that on our show before you get
cat5 dot TV slash solder
and you'll be able to pick one of those
up they're really inexpensive the one
that I picked up because I'm just a
beginner I don't need to invest in the
$200 model I just need an entry-level
like let's get started let's learn our
way through and let's tinker with some
cheap stuff that I got for free and and
invest three dollars and change in order
to see if I can make it work mm-hmm you
need to have flux you absolutely do and
I learned that here on the show because
our community came together and bashed
me to death using wits love yeah it was
it was for good intentions well no yeah
there's a couple thumbs down on YouTube
and that's okay because I'm learning and
that's that's all there's always those
YouTube you have to have flex that's
gonna help and then we've also we've got
to have now I use lead-free solder so
you do have to have some solder as well
I I have that nice little gnat that I'm
using which basically protects any
surface and prevents heat from from
getting on to your table right and then
I've got a helping hands which helps me
to hold the soldering iron while it's
hot and also in some instances helps
with the with this like actually holding
the circuit board or what a working on
in this case it was a little more of a
hindrance than anything but that's
because I was working with a big clunky
board but really in order to have your
fork and boxing cam ready that's all you
need and then you will go viral which I
need your help to do
[Music]
[Applause]
