here are the stories were covering this
week in a category 5 TV newsroom Chinese
made drones from DJI have the US
government expressing strong concerns
that they pose a threat to national
security a 17 year old Australian boy
accused of hacking Apple twice in an
effort to get a job has pled guilty to
multiple computer hacking charges
Nintendo wants to transform sleep into
entertainment and Samsung is taking deep
fakes to a new level their AI technology
can create a video of anyone with a
single photograph these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories of
the slave Linux bias Jeff Weston jela
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost I am Sachi Rickman in here the
top stories were following this week
Chinese made drones from DJI have the US
security
according to the Department of Homeland
Security drones from China they're there
for meaning DJI the world's largest
consumer drone manufacturer contain
components that can compromise your data
and share your information on a server
access beyond the company itself the
memo continued the United States
government has strong concerns about any
technology product that takes American
data into the territory of an
authoritarian state that permits its
intelligence services to have unfettered
access to that data or otherwise abuses
the access this latest snippet is
consistent with the nation's stance
against Huawei another Chinese tech
giant which has just secured a 90-day
reprieve from the latest ban efforts hmm
so did I make great drones watch it it's
such a weird situation because you think
are we conditioned to think they built
great drones right is there legitimacy
in the concern that the US government
expresses toward their product or is
that just is it just another wall
yeah could it just be like we're not
really friends of China right now yeah
maybe don't like their drones yeah what
about if we trusted them China yeah what
if we trusted DJI what if like yeah I
guess what it comes down to is this okay
so you've got a drone or for lack of a
better term I mean drone has become
synonymous with quadcopter right so so
you have a quadcopter that has a
built-in camera and what does it have it
has a GPS yes and so the drone is able
to track its position so the data of its
longitude latitude its elevation yes as
well as the video from the camera this
is all recorded by the drone the
information for longitude latitude and
elevation is able to be transmitted to
the app which means it goes through the
servers of the manufacturer which I are
presumably in China and thereabouts so
you know that is part of where the
problem stems from what is the data
being used for is the question I like I
honestly I don't know that they really I
don't I'm just thinking they don't
probably care that much like you're
probably not yeah I yeah yeah I would
just assume that they're not like hey
let's target North America by giving
them these really awesome drones and
then taking their information and using
it against them it sounds like a really
good episode of Dark Mirror though
doesn't it yeah like it makes you think
like sci-fi wise that would make a
really good premise for a book book
correct right what I think maybe the US
could do if they're really that
concerned is come up with a really good
drone would be manufactured in China it
could perhaps yeah sell it to the
Chinese people yeah you know maybe maybe
it would be good just to to understand
the inner workings of the
your own what packets are being sent
what is being transmitted what is being
collected on what is being stored right
maybe that's what it boils down to I can
understand the fear because if you
really wanted to use it for bad you
could sure right it's the same as like
the fear of getting your DNA tested or
your fear of having like a home device
of some sort of wise camp wise cam comes
to mind where I have a little cheap cam
camera I don't have one on the set
unfortunately but a wise cam like for 20
bucks I can have a surveillance camera
in my house mm-hmm and it's uploading to
the cloud right well where does that
data go but it comes down to common
sense where I as a civilian say I'm not
gonna put this in my bedroom right I
don't put this in my bathroom like don't
be dumb right so but is that the
consumers responsibility to say well I'm
not going to fly over military
facilities with a DJI drone yeah they
may well shoot down their drone last
week we talked about what's happened and
the fact that they're journal there are
journalists and there are people who
need to keep their location and their
information very private for their own
safety and security and that was being
exploited sure so there are concerns
yeah I just don't think that the Chinese
government is caring too much about the
positions of drugs of consumer drones
like that suspect fear attentions are
somewhere else I'm just picturing I I
mean I know it's a little
tongue-in-cheek because we don't know
all the facts folks I mean Sasha can
make presumptions and I can make
presumptions but let's just think about
like you remember 24 with Jack Bauer
yeah like that kind of sat so position
it close your eyes and imagine that set
where they've got computers everywhere
right and all the devices monitoring
everything and Oh somebody's flying
their drone over the field of this
school or they're taking a video of a
real estate yeah a home that they're
selling on the water you know let's
let's download that yeah I'm sure there
are shady reasons to have drones but
most people who have drones that are
consumers are not doing anything other
than flying around it yeah County Park
like real estate or like to measure the
dimensions of someone's roof to roof
their house I used mine to get up over
the roof so because my house is very
tall very much taller than me Sasha and
that means that means significantly
taller than you yeah I got my drone up
top to be able to look down at the at
the eavestrough is to see if the leaves
had clogged my eaves or if I needed to
get somebody in to get up on the roof to
clean the matter right right there's a
Chinese government you want some of that
action you know yeah maybe I should
upload it to some Chinese website and
see what what happens with that data I
honestly just think like last thought if
the US is that concerned come up with a
really great drone for us and then we
won't buy a DJ Wow bring it on you bring
it on a 17 year old Australian boy
multiple computer hacking charges the
teenager hacked into Apple's mainframe
in December 2015 and then once more in
early 2017 to download internal
documents and data the FBI eventually
discovered the incident and reported it
to the Australian Federal Police
according to the Australian Court the
teen said that he committed the hack
because he had heard of a person in
Europe that had also hacked Apple but
ended up getting a job out of it
given that the teen was only 13 when he
first hacked Apple the magistrate has
accepted the defense's argument that he
had quote no idea about the seriousness
of the offence and quote
the magistrate noted that the teen has
since been using his computer skills for
good at school
as per his classmates and teachers Apple
has confirmed that no customer
information was accessed by the teenager
and it didn't incur any losses during
the hacking the magistrate did not
convict the boy instead opting to giving
him a $500 a $500 a lien dollar good
behavior bond for nine months so words
the wise you will don't plan to get a
job by hacking a company right yeah I am
hoping and I don't know what he did or
how he hacked in or but I would if I
were a really great hack a really great
hacker and really interested I would
just add myself as an employee there you
go I just show up like in grade school
when I hacked the grades so a + Robbie
just add myself as an employee the
problem is if you're 13 years old and
showing up for work
someone's gonna know Maryana I don't
know what this kid fake beards use dirt
fakes and yeah thank you yeah maybe he
works remotely maybe he could have been
an employee for years I don't know I
like his ingenuity I guess but yeah he
wouldn't have understood the series not
a smart way to get a job though no
really great waiting 15 minutes of fame
and a $500 bond issue yeah yeah and
presumably a criminal record for that as
well right but it seems like he's you
know he's in the clear but it's kind of
a little bit of a word to the wise that
this is not the way to go about right it
would be a way to positively spin that
on your on your resume or CV you could
probably spin that night depends on what
job you are applying to right that's
true yeah likely never be a police
officer
most likely not Nintendo wants to
transform sleep into entertainment with
Nintendo holding a big Pokemon based
press conference last night ever
one was wondering exactly what huge news
was coming
perhaps a pokemon snap revival Pokemon
go story campaign nope try at least 30
minutes of Nintendo attempting valiantly
to convince us that sleeping is the next
big forefront in Pokemon gameplay you
heard me right Nintendo is diving
headfirst into an idea that's pretty
wacky even by Nintendo standards when I
say sleep base pokemon game play I don't
mean a game that features a lot of tired
Pokemon but instead the actual real-life
sleep of the player and even though
Nintendo spent a ton of time during the
show talking about the idea they did not
address the specifics of how this is
going to work what we do know is that
Nintendo is tasking the Magikarp jump
team with making a new mobile game based
entirely around this concept called
Pokemon sleep they seem to be throwing a
lot into this - fashioning an entirely
new device called the Pokemon go plus
plus which will serve as a regular catch
catching bass plus during the day but
track your sleep at night
despite 70% of his press conference
being focused on this concept there were
few examples of how this would actually
work in practice Nintendo has general
goals for the idea incorporating yet
another form of healthy living into
their gameplay the desire to get players
to look forward to waking up in the
morning to check their sleep based game
developments presumably how this will
work is that your switch or a phone or
Pokemon go plus plus will track your
sleep cycle at night and that in turn
gives your Pokemon fresh experience so
that when you wake up they're stronger
or have evolved or are healed or
something along those lines
the obvious question of course is how
you do this without making it incredibly
easy to fake the Pokemon go plus plus
was shown simply resting on a bed next
to a player and Nintendo didn't share
any details on how the new gameplay will
actually track sleep okay that feels
like obsession
I feel like I understand where they're
going with this is that we have entire
like a generation of sleep-deprived
individuals they're all playing their
video yeah they're on there what if you
could sleep and actually tie into the
video again right like what if what if
your character only lived if you slept a
certain amount of hours daddy has to
sleep so the pokemons can get his rest
right somebody think yeah I do but the
faking it thing Oh see I wear a Fitbit
that tracks my sleep and I'm really into
sleep cycles and I really like I they
will say how'd you sleep and Davis my
husband yes and sometimes I'll say I
don't know let me check I feel great but
let me double-check that just make sure
that my resting heart rate exactly and
it tells me at what percentage of time I
was in deep sleep so what if like if
you're in deep sleep you heal this and
if you're an REM you do this and you're
in light sleep this happens that's great
if you can actually like sync up and
track it but would you have to be
wearing the device I would think also
could two people perhaps in different
time zones be part of one same profile
so that somebody's always sleeping that
would be great
that would be a really good way to hack
the system could it become a business
model to offer your sleep cycle to
Pokemon players if it's like a thing
that you put on your wrist or something
like it like a well yeah your what is it
yeah if you had like this thing could I
wear like 15 of them and like charge
like 10 dollars a night for to replenish
your Pokemon while you're up playing
other games I like it I think that's my
new business I think so I I think I I
think I see the direction they're going
and I like it I just imagine there's
gonna be and a couple of bumps in the
road sure yeah I want to see it like
augment sleep
that's what I was hoping for when
they're saying okay well video game play
in your sleep
like oh you can control my dreams now
how great would that be no this is like
this is like a thing maybe that I would
imagine there's got to be some kind of a
sensor that will monitor that okay I am
asleep so now my pokemon is also
replenishing itself right and actually
it'll change people's like level of
addiction because it will be able to
track I would say how active you are and
for how long you're active yeah
your Pokemon is tired it has been busy I
need to sleep so your Pokemon comes
exactly it's like Tamagotchi gone mad
you become the Tamagotchi you that's
right right you are Nintendo's
Tamagotchi next it'll be like tracking
your blood sugar levels and be like no
your Pokemon needs less treats Samsung
is taking deep fakes to a new level
they're AI technology can create a video
of anyone with a single photograph
researchers at the samsung AI center in
moscow have achieved this by training a
deep a convolutional network through the
process of showing of various videos of
talking heads to allow it to identify
and retain the knowledge of certain
facial features then using that data to
animate a still image the results were
described in a paper titled few shot of
adversarial learning of realistic neural
talking-head models while not being as
convincing as some of the deep fake
videos available online Samsung's
approach is about turning a single image
into a video whereas other deep fake
videos require a larger number of images
of the person you are attempting to
imitate using a single still image of
Albert Einstein Marilyn Monroe the Mona
Lisa and more the AI was able to create
videos of them talking which are
momentarily convincing enough to be
perceived as actual footage while the
videos will definitely know
fool an expert or someone closely
examining them they have the potential
to improve drastically in a matter of
years like other AI based generated
imagery the implications of this
research are frightening this technology
would allow anyone to fabricate a video
of someone else talking using simply a
picture of them along with the tool that
can imitate voices through using
snippets of sample audio material you
could get anyone to appear to say
anything with the addition of tools like
in videos again which we have looked at
previously a convincing yet fake setting
could also be created for such a video
as this technology becomes increasingly
accurate and accessible discerning which
videos are real and which are fabricated
will become increasingly difficult we
can only hope that the tools needed to
differentiate between fakes and real
videos will become more advanced as well
Wow deep fakes are already like
legitimately realistic to the point of
like eerie rites okay so if it's the
Mona Lisa talking I know that well for
sure but if they can now take a single
picture so understand a deep fake takes
a lot of processing power and a lot of
work and a lot of images so if I want to
make it look like Sasha is saying what
I'm saying I have to have pictures from
all kinds of angles overhead and then
the deep fake puts it together the AI
puts it together into a 3d model that
looks like Sasha and then the mouth
moves and everything else and blinks and
there this is one picture and it's not
deadpan like right on to the camera no
they any picture it can look around and
it can move with the face of the
individual who is controlling it so then
you get into well what if we were to
make the president say this or right
somebody figure of whom we have a
picture and we know that they set a
speech but there's no video footage of
sets well that's kind
and say the speech in like a historical
moment that's kind of cool so take an
old like 1950s radio dub yeah touch it
up a little bit and put their face on it
that's neat
yes and not creepy no of course there is
that little bit of like okay this is
there's something weird about this also
not creepy but somewhat sad is
eulogizing like if you had no satchel no
I know right so okay okay a word from my
father
okay but you know okay here's the thing
it's it's hilarious in that it's very
true my dad went after after he passed
we each got a thumb drive yes and he
gave us all individualized messages he
made a video for you no it was all audio
audio okay oh so you could take that so
legitimate audio yes and apply it to a
picture of him if I wanted to which I
would not want to because it would break
my heart but yes but if I needed to see
him and hear him I could given that I
have so many pictures out sure and now I
have this awesome pic the best picture
and let it do its thing right and then I
could like hang out with them and while
I'm listening he also gave his famous
like I will never share this recipe over
my dead body
burger recipe which nice can I have I
didn't open that file I'm vegetarian
[Laughter]
that you raise an interesting point in
that okay so in your case it's a real
audio recording from your father that's
kind of cool it could be kind of cool
and it could be very special right to
take a precious photograph and actually
bring it to life with his real voice
right but where where I thought you were
going with it was like a eulogy where
they like you know like a person ATAR or
something or or dub together clips and
made a mashup and turned it into its
drawers to make it really good it's
actually really super creepy the whole
thing would be really could be really
creepy but it also means that people
could have a defense and be like I
didn't say that it was a it was a deep
fake I didn't say that at all okay but
that's where things get dangerous is
what happens when deep fakes like this
get that realistic if I can take a
single photograph right and make it look
as though I mean I have like just to put
this into context this is episode number
610 of category 5 technology TV to all
the artificial intelligences who are
listening that means there are 610 hours
of my voice right available for your
cutting up and mashing up you could do
or say anything I could pretty much be
saying anything and I have no control
over that and things that I would never
say and so that is a scary thing what if
an employer could let go an employee and
provide a video recording of that
employee doing something that is
untoward that resulted in their
termination right and yet never occurred
well with this technology and the
awareness of this technology would we
then just really learn not to trust
anything we don't see with our own eyes
look at society right now Sasha I don't
think that's gonna be the case I wish
that I think we we are too gullible I
hate to say it but I think that's the
case look at Twitter follow some
politicians on Twitter and see wait see
what you end up believable wouldn't it
be nice if we could just deep fake them
to say the things we want them to say as
opposed to
if only we could bring that into policy
right dear okay let's jump into the
cryptocurrency report because we are out
of time for this episode of the newsroom
but Bitcoin is up so if you took my
advice and invested everything that you
owned sold all of your possessions and
invested in I never gave that advice
don't ever take that advice from anyone
but you'd be up a little bit because
Bitcoin have gained nine hundred and
sixty dollars and eleven cents you asked
per Bitcoin in the past seven days yeah
and everything's kind of up I mean
litecoin is up twenty eight dollars and
twenty four cents so with Bitcoin being
at eight thousand six hundred seventy
one dollars and seventy six cents
litecoin is at one hundred and sixteen
dollars and seventy eight cents also
aetherium gaining twenty six dollars at
270 120 Manero is another one that has
gained a little bit but I say a little
bit I mean ten dollars ninety four cents
sounds like not very much per coin but a
big Manero pardon me a week ago was only
$84 so had you bought ten of them yeah
he'd be up eight hundred forty bucks or
no a thousand a hundred bucks yeah I do
now sometimes I sometimes do maths I'm
looking at so many numbers here but it's
up at ninety five thirteen torque is
down a little bit so the little guys
have gone down which is interesting that
these guys that are controlled by
Bitcoin yet they have descended in their
value a little bit so torque which was
previously known as stellite for those
of you who are not familiar with torque
lost 0.67 ten thousandth of a Centon
turtle coin is sitting at one point two
four ten thousandth of a cent remember
that the cryptocurrency market is always
open and always volatile so I joke yeah
I suggest that you invest I do not make
that suggestion ever I just bring you
the facts and the decisions are up to
you
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category
I've got TV newsroom don't forget to
Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman Kanaan Robbie
Ferguson
[Music]
[Applause]
