we're all struggling during these trying
times and pine sixty-four presses on and
has been working hard to fulfill orders
in spite of the state of our world right
now with the latest run of pine book
prose going out amidst the cove at
nineteen pandemic things haven't gone as
smoothly as we'd all hope and a couple
of problems have cropped up so far with
the latest shipment I'm gonna cover two
such issues with the May June 2020 run
of pine book pros Wi-Fi not working and
an inability to boot stick around I'll
show you how to fix both of these
problems
[Music]
the issue pine sixty-four can't provide
their own quality assurance or quality
control during the pandemic they don't
have access to the factory and they may
not even be able to enter the factories
until September it's not ideal and no
doubt the team at pine sixty-four are
feeling frustrated or even potentially
upset that some of these issues have
cropped up but like everyone else
they're doing the absolute best they
possibly can during these difficult
times so what's the best that we can do
as their community I think it's to
support one another and spread
information to help each other to be
able to get up and running quickly
should we encounter these problems
hopefully this information reaches you
ahead of your pine Book Pro shipment and
that way you're gonna know what to do so
let's get our maker on first problem a
beautiful yet sadly unbootable pine Book
Pro if you're newly arrived pine book
pro simply won't boot first thing you
want to do is try to boot from an SD
card and if it boots from the SD it's
possible the emmc storage is disabled
with a hardware switch and you may need
to flip the emmc disabled switch
unfortunately it seems that while some
of the current run of pine book pros had
that switch enabled out of the factory
which means there emmc storage is
physically disabled and when I say emmc
think of that in terms of hard drive the
storage medium within the the pine book
pro so let's open up our pine Book Pro
to correct this first off I've already
removed the ten screws just to expedite
this procedure for the air this is the
hinge at the back and I'm just gonna
carefully pry upward but not all the way
because the speakers are affixed with a
double-sided adhesive so I want to just
kind of carefully reach in here and peel
those off so one over here and one here
and the reason I've done that is because
I don't want to pull on these very very
fine wires that are connecting those
there we are okay so now I'm gonna and I
should mention I have cut myself on
these edges before this is a very very
thin metal and it is very sharp so as
you're doing this be very mindful of
that be careful as I say I have cut
myself even live on the air on this so I
want to warn you about that okay
I'm going to turn this around so you've
got a little bit of a better view and I
want to show you this is the emmc chip
right here you can see I've got a 64 gig
storage medium here emmc
and that's just a chip that you can you
can remove and replace if you want but
that's included with your pine Book Pro
however as we can see here the switch is
set toward the front this is the switch
that enables and disables the emmc so
what I need to do is take that switch
and very carefully flip it toward the
hinge mechanism alright so I've just
flipped that over and now it's as simple
as that let's put this case back on
being mindful of the sharp edges always
put the case back on before you flip it
over otherwise you may lose some of the
internal plastic components that kind of
elevate things flip that over and let's
give it a test so I'm going to carefully
open up my pine Book Pro and let's see
if she boots I've got a power light now
which is promising it's turned green and
we've got the Manjaro logo and we're
booting up fantastic and there you go
we're greeted with the KDE plasma login
screen on Manjaro Linux so I'm just
gonna quickly log in here and we should
be good to go right no holdup remember I
said there were two problems we're in
but Wi-Fi isn't working it's in fact not
working at all the way I can determine
that and you may go through this is if
you jump down to the wireless
configuration wireless network down near
the clock click that and it's as if
there is no wireless we'll see the
reason why your pine Book Pro Wi-Fi
isn't working
is because the factory left the privacy
switches on during testing see there's a
Wi-Fi privacy switch on your pine Book
Pro that's great right well you press
the pine 64 logo while at the same time
pressing f11 and then your Wi-Fi chip
will be enabled or disabled now the
catch-22 though is that the Wi-Fi chip
is not hot swappable however the privacy
switch being that it's an actual
physical Hardware switch is cutting
power to the chip so upon turning it
back on
it's not going to work so even if you
turn it off and on again
unfortunately that fix is not going to
work in this case when you press and
hold the pine logo and press f11 you're
going to see a series of flashes on your
num lock three flashes means that it's
disabled Pine button and f11 two flashes
means it's enabled remember three
flashes one two three my Wi-Fi chip is
now powered off press it again one two
the Wi-Fi chip is now powered on however
I still don't have wireless so what I
need to do now is I do in fact need to
reboot my mana or Linux let's do it
back at the login and if all went well
we've solved both of those issues today
let's find out and all
to my desktop oh I saw a wife
connection there click and there we go
Wireless is now enabled one last tip
when you're connecting to your wireless
if you have access to five gigahertz
Wi-Fi please connect to that you're
going to get a better signal and because
we have shared frequencies between
bluetooth and the wireless adapter if
you go on a 2.4 gigahertz you're going
to possibly potentially encounter other
issues with your Bluetooth devices so
use 5 gigahertz if you can for your
Wi-Fi connectivity now no doubt this
whole procedure is going to be improved
in time and it really only came to light
because of the fact that the wireless
privacy switch was enabled out of the
factory I believe that they're going to
fix this with software in the future so
please watch for some updates and for
more help with your Pine Book Pro check
out their comprehensive wiki page on
pine 64 org and if you can't find what
you're looking for they also provide a
community forum and they are active on
Twitter reddit by RC telegram discord
among others and you'll find each at
pine 64
