[Music]
happy Wednesday guys oh you up I was
about to say there he is I don't know a
rubbish hello Robbie's right here you
already want me to do the intro or your
room no mic then coffee why not yeah
I'll just pour myself a coffee you got
you go up at the intro sure here we go
good morning welcome to community coffee
break for Wednesday 6th of May 2020 on
the court looks like we've got meat I
don't know where I am on the screen but
here I am hello and Peter and then we
have mush man then we have Ron
Morissette thanks thanks room and
there's Robbie
finally back with his cuff after missing
up the kitchen area and Agra motor
welcome yep alrighty discuss okay what
arrives the porridge Upson I got four
bonds like this that looks like a note
droid to me nope
Oh close though I mean most as far as
size goes yes your text DVD so these
came in I haven't even been to the
studio so I don't know if they work yet
mounting a word where it is does look
like it's pallet it is yeah okay a lot
that's the idea so I've went instead of
passive I've gone with a powered unit
that is it basically allows you to daisy
chain to hdmi cables so the hdmi output
is going to go along the big long cable
into the producers room and then the
input is gonna be where i plug in the
camera okay here's hoping motor does
that mean you can stretch 50 feet from
that point now from
hey point for Joe to be well you tell me
based on the instructions it looks like
it's trying to use also yeah it's a yes
to me so I can sorry about that
yup a whole bunch of Chinese characters
and then it says 4k / 60fps Chinese yeah
that's all I care so to answer your
question me I'm guessing this is not
made in the US just against word I could
have scanned that into one of our
machines and had it translated oh yeah
have you guys seen that the Google
Translate app have you guys got the
Google Translate app in your phone you
probably because if you if you switch
your camera on and you scans like you
just pointed it something like that it
will actually on the screen change it to
English it's amazing so we've we've gone
to the I mentioned the Asian grocery
store which is where I get my kimchi
right nope so I can get like a package
like that oh yeah and where where the
ingredients on the back are all these
hieroglyphs you put your site in it it
will say image to image G and more
imagery most likely yes it's actually
it's actually been pretty helpful
because we do a lot of we do a lot of
Asian food and so so I've used that a
few times and a lot of times for snack
foods too because like a bag that we
would see is like crisps or chips you
don't know what the ingredients are or
what on earth is loved us Chinese or
Japanese will be tofu tofu soy yo soy yo
soya and we buy that too yes
bad dog barber pops him last night yes I
did actually tofu on the BBQ has been a
really good kind of substitute for the
Rebecca and the kids
I had pork chops it's nice that totally
you've got a flavor right because
there's no flavor to the tofu itself
yeah pretty much so what what Becca does
before I get home is she'll press the
water out of it I'm just like just put
some weight on top to press the water
out and then she'll slice it so that
they're their individual kind of steaks
mm-hmm and then marinate it in like a
teriyaki homemade and how long would you
Helen would you marinate it for at least
a half hour Guney Buena Park yeah would
you know her if you count her yeah last
night it was a half hour because it was
like a last minute kind of like what are
we gonna do for dinner I'll barbecue
[Laughter]
that beef that I turned out okay was the
wrong cut of beef to put in the in the
crock-pot what I was hoping to do was to
just cook that meat low and slow for
hours an hour and until it literally
just falls apart and what cut was it it
was a pot roast when I shoulda called a
pot roast yeah so what I should have
done this what I should have done is
used something with a little more
marbling I think a chuck piece of chuck
or something
oh yes just wrap it in bacon just wasn't
it just didn't come apart as I'd hoped
it would so I just thought the wrong
kind of meat that's all I was I've never
liked I have round for that reason
because I've always cooked low and slow
and then I just found out the other day
I know it's silly but I just found out
no I have round it's so lean that you've
got a
get fast so lots of high heat and and
get it cooked fast and I think that's
what happened I think that's what
happened with this one I've always done
the low and slow I always thought that
was but what but yeah I always thought
that is what but roast was for walls are
not but roast this was quite roast to be
pretty fat on how to be good yeah yeah
take some things please the other
thousand just as my older may not be any
good help us out on their kind
I just got no trace I've gone away for a
long time and I finally voted in eating
a bit difficult if you only go to make
money don't worry just don't work at
work at the moment so you know no jail I
just area that one now and when served
morning plate and meat I can eat or
drink anything particularly in variable
so does that mean we should stop talking
about cooking food and eating food then
Peter is that what you're requesting oh
yeah a drinking water problem a mother
of six no and not going really I'd ever
both she does really hated Jesus sake
now he's not very six is very nice and
nothing horrible death oh my okay a cup
of tea I don't wanna forget could be if
they follow the goalie study picture
inside a yes take any outdoor can
swallow it tip of the day usually one of
those batteries okay Megan I bought yeah
if you agree one guy yeah one of those
thanks that again old one allows take
the top of the day so this is wild on it
and what I would I don't got any go for
battery clip
perfect there you go
you saved yourself 30 cents boys it is a
good hack though that's the only battery
that I know of that you can do that you
can absolutely yes baby pictures as well
TP 6 I don't know baby 6 is I only know
bp9 yeah that's me so now we know who
the is LexA gives in a bunch wait all
this time is just upside down anyway
guys if you guys do garbage it don't
they get to know you to face by the
right up more I'm a little confused by
the way everybody like your your
camera's doing better now Peter your
microphone is a little bit on the lease
offices some to be desired yeah you
you'd be good because we have trouble
hearing you
it would be good if you got like a
reasonably decent microphone I think
that would probably help the problem is
that he he overdrove that microphone big
time yes thing a couple of days ago now
it's under and now it's not a bit under
yep zum-zum has a pretty good in the
settings you can select to automatically
adjust your microphone and if you set it
to automatic if you're too loud it will
automatically turn you down and if
you're too quiet it will automatically
turn it up that is a bit better it is
better for sure yeah but if you set it
to automatic then then you're not having
to worry about it and then if the dog
barks it soom will presumably
automatically turn down your microphone
a little bit so we're not all blasted
video today menial that again the relay
no dhoka dhoka with microphone settings
yeah yeah that's pretty helpful
that's a definite improvement there for
sure we're all learning how to operate
within this zoom powered environment it
is 2020 yes
I'm just used to doing this on my phone
about the computer so it's like that's
what I'm using yeah that's what I'm
using but I have a Bluetooth headset
which really makes a difference I think
that that helps with the audio yes at
some point during our board complaints
yes domestic ducting is a lovely
automatic in there looks back up when it
did Enzo go through your settings you
don't have to be on to find it like app
maybe after the coffee break take a look
through your settings and see if you can
find it okay so I dropped the shipping
notification for the parts for the
clothes washing machine excellent I dish
these parts to rich still works
so if yes well that the website is
actually sees parts to read or one word
okay
that's the rear so Hartman's so it's not
serious part no it's Siri prices no it's
all one word Sears Parts Direct I think
here no North America would be called a
nd because that's what was spun off for
what was left of Sears Holdings oh yeah
we just had we've got like an appliance
I think they call them appliance Shack
or something like that here in Barrie
and it's just like a mom-and-pop shop
that they have everything any any time
you need anything you just walk in the
door and say this is the model of my
washer I need this part and they go into
the back and grab it for you it's pretty
brilliant there's an order there's an
auto parts place close to me that does
the same thing they I don't know where
he get these parts from but you know if
you can describe the make and model of
your of your vehicle and the part number
you need yeah almost places don't well
yeah like we as consumers like will walk
in and like how do they have everything
but
then you realize that the actual like
the auto shops use them as their
suppliers so that they've got immediate
local access to two parts good points
though so it makes a lot of sense then
yeah they're gonna want you've got a
chop shop in the back
probably yeah then the the chop shop
must be putting all the package
packaging back around the parts because
they look like new plan just whatever
you do don't park in a red spot where
exactly caps go fund the free correct
happy shriek Rhett packing to put it all
back into yep today it's show day guys
yay that's my life in a nutshell yeah
yeah I'm so much still waiting patiently
for that point I'm cuz I'm yeah me too I
mean I'm gonna I could start writing
some code but have no idea if it's gonna
work or not to let the device FedEx says
my c4 is meant to be here which sounds
funny now that I say it yeah I'm just
getting a shipment of I shipped a whole
bunch of c-4 buy makes you wonder what
what happened to c1 c2 and c3 I wonder
if they're like Raspberry Pi for loading
right c4 right I wonder if that's the if
that's the connection
actually the c19 the c1 of the CT were
both released previously the c3 was an
in-house development model but they
decided not to release and so the c4 is
the latest model Wow okay
you know about God you're great you're
loved John ago and I was at work that
was cutting new cootch grows and they
were all gained under Gotham because of
an echo and do you have that problem or
that problem got away now Guffey Nichols
grows gieok make some shorter the nickel
in it is supposed to be poison anybody
heard of that one before
nickel hmm mega cross pinnacle of they
were made of nickel made a nickel then
we made it nickel the battle nickel and
I a chemistry chemical face yeah am i
and but like well of the were they they
did my god dirty nickel screwed up glaze
all we own the die eventually got the
outsell barely out in the world while I
never get upset the maple we're bloody
Facebook and I've got something today I
was thinking about that you know I've
had I've come to die Chokin believe this
and still remembered about the nickel
screws at work and that's a long time
ago you know I did when a believe me
I've had that problem before yo we gotta
try our nickels grow in debt because it
nigga we suppose they're poison under
the arm talk to you you know I can I can
never tell I can never tell if your room
if you're messing with us or not since
the doctor whose parent ox internet
things I can never tell whether you're
messing with us or not I know jewelers
don't use nickel much because as their
hen allergic reactions and earrings and
other jewelry with nickel I believe I
said that nickel when I work in nature
gummy and we work in the the age group
art is above me and ever cottage goes
down to 13 billion German Stuka there
were two long time out on and
X on the top of the name you'd have
altered to make it you know right
and eventually gained in one day and
said that we couldn't do that because
the niccola voice no no no glad you buy
cute about it as well you know we read
to will this space was just as well but
yet I don't like I don't know why they
doing that but anyway I'll never go
after that you know you look really out
there
speaking of nickel you guys here the
Raspberry Pi it's got a new camera oh
not a perfect segue okay about the
Raspberry Pi camera I've heard about you
yeah Bo you you of course all heard
about it or are you gonna be stocking it
but I've been contemplating it that's
pretty pricey though it is yeah but the
marketing makes it out to sound like
it's not only $50 Oh until you add it to
your cart and then realize nope it's 150
what it's just the modulus so you like a
very pie you're closer to 200 bucks at
least Canadian maybe not like that much
America suppose if you want an
open-source door camera you're calling
your door my dangle from Kanaka what's a
bell a 135 I got the camera the
telephoto lens and the wide-angle lens
from a nice sweet that's not bad I mean
it is but it's not it's like 12 12 and
1/2 megapixels so you're talking like
potentially movie camera quality or
reasonable DSLR quality out of a
Raspberry Pi which is kind of neat
wonder what it's good for is it powerful
enough to be able to handle streaming
that kind of that's what I don't know
yet
well it's 1080p well be one way for
video ever across the street in their
nightgown oh where did this just go well
as usual agamotto takes it to the to the
go thank you
I was gonna tell you my use case I was
gonna tell you my use case but now Agra
moto is gonna completely twist it I was
thinking maybe connect the sensor to a
telescope oh yeah oh that I can oh there
so that I can do so that I can do
nighttime photography at 12 megapixels
so you that was my thought on the block
yes there you go now you can be a little
more selective we've had a little
scandal in our neighborhood group watch
it's a online thing called neighborhoods
and somebody posted some camera from
their ring doorbell thing what are your
neighbors going out to get the newspaper
and their bathrobe and of course there
was something of a wardrobe malfunction
instead of I was politely informing the
neighbor hey you might want to consider
some different underclothing no somebody
had to put it on the group and on a
model Department in order to
embarrassing all right so that's not
what the Raspberry Pi cameras for boys
stick with the wide angle lens agamotto
I don't want to see you buying a
telephoto oddly enough I am one of the
least technologically houses in the
world because I just don't trust all
that stuff in the household yet yeah
maybe that's what I what I find
intriguing about it though is that
because it's Raspberry Pi you are the
one in control of what it does so like
ring
you don't know where it's sending your
data yeah it's the idea I love the idea
but I just don't like that it's in
someone else's control but your data
isn't someone else's control yeah yeah
so here's here you could make your own
out of the Raspberry Pi if you want to
do well one of the one I think I've
mentioned to have a Synology box and one
of the apps on yeah particular box is
called surveillance station you can
mount cameras around the outside of your
building you come and have it all
controlled by the Synology box itself so
it's all it's it's all your data you
know your images storing it on your
drive doesn't go anywhere else does it
just use like any IP camera that it
finds on the network yeah on the website
they've got some they've got some
recommended cameras that you can go
catch you don't have to buy one from
them or anything you just use no no no
they just say you can use any of these
and they'll work you know you point your
Synology box to it and it will go the
issue though is that you only get a
license for like one or two cameras if
you want to add more cameras than you oh
ah see that's what I want to get away
from is the throw you gotta put more
money into it in order to get better
software features that's why Microtech
is so appealing good go and yeah see you
can use the Raspberry Pi camera on that
put it on the lens or on the viewfinder
okay amazing for reading this will bring
tonight please
and good done the quick tour noisy the
bit you need you need a microfiche at a
microscope I remember those microfiche I
remember those yeah baby words but it
don't think was Meleager either pretty
good it yep I don't you know because if
we don't know you I see the bridge will
be easy Toby you've got to have a steady
hand though to move it just just so
on the cyan't understand yeah I say
Kitty's one but it would you like what
the man had things reshaped our other
wouldn't like spicy Welch's what she's
no good way the Prince of things picks
her and I'm Victor and Peter now a
sitting in a nice big lazy boy recliner
it's got a good luck in his hand and
he's got a microscope connected to his
forehead locked up like a ball garage
yeah exactly
whatever works whatever works well hey
if that works man I've just got the
glasses I couldn't read without them but
well I thought about logic I thought
about lazy quanto for business own way
there's no way there's no way I'm
letting them cut my cut my eye open so
they can hit there at the back of the
eye with a laser and then put it all
back together it yeah I've been told
that that wouldn't work for me just with
the stigmatism that I have oh yeah it
doesn't do well enough to do wrapped
outrage took more that saw it that way
could marry those in design Nate the
good eye late they did down those good
all and mucked it up awesome she does it
no no no that's not very nice no no you
don't feel loved it'll wither how close
did oh dear see soul boos not here today
is he so Peter stone is Arjun he which
been sober would spin this in such a way
it would well Peters taken care a little
more desert there something better good
jobs for that yeah so you were
considering LASIK let me tell you about
someone who it was not successful
guarantee your guarantee you're gonna
get horror stories no matter oh yeah
yeah how
lenses where they actually put the lens
in your eye mm-hmm because I thought
that I wouldn't know I haven't been I
haven't been in Australia for 27 years
oh sorry I was just going by the accent
sorry that's right
there's but the answer is here they do I
believe you can this is for cataracts
right that's what I was it's true here
in this basically a special type of soft
contact lens so they can put in your eye
the German the lens in your eye in your
you know everything else as an
alternative to LASIK for people with
image isms and such mean oh okay I've
ever heard of replacing the cornea or
folks who've got cataracts that's what
yeah I've got family members who have
had that done in order to remedy their
cataracts and it's pretty pretty amazing
and night and day for them like one day
you can't see the next day all of a
sudden you got clear vision but they
didn't believe it
Mary's different guys she had other
problems I read it wasn't service
provision the problem happens well run
the operation she tried weekly we don't
wait to get up could you could invisible
it will be a big nothing farad yeah a
little too serious the end end of our
coffee break guys wish me luck tonight I
got a lot of wiring and stuff to do and
I'm like oh my goodness I wish I had
like a day or a week or something yes
yeah exactly yeah so and do the news for
me and then I've got to get everything
going and and and get everything set up
it's nice having Becca willing to do
that because she's like the one person
that I know who's allowed to come on
site right so
it's wonderful right now for us there
will be Benji you and Robbie don't worry
yeah thanks Andrew I'll see you see you
guys tonight and for those who won't be
there see you tomorrow at the coffee
break bye
alright see you later bye
