covering the week stop text alerts
it's like Linux bias until now Apple has
been using Intel processors but
according to a Bloomberg report the
company is now preparing to develop its
own processors for Mac computers which
could be ruled out as early as next year
Apple is said to be working on three
different processors that are based on
the a14 chip that will power the next
iPhone according to the report the first
of these new Apple made chips is
expected to be much faster than that of
an iPhones and will arrive in a new
computer next year and taking this step
Apple is likely to be slowly moving
towards ditching its dependence on Intel
chips altogether apple's partner for
iPhone and iPad processors Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co will
develop the new Mac chips the components
will be based on the 5 nanometer
production technique the same sized
Apple will use in the next iPhones and
iPod pros details are thin at the moment
but we'll be able sure be able to let
you know more as the specifications are
announced
you
[Music]
