[Music]
it's coffee break time everybody hope
you got your Joe Sunday Happy Easter
Robbie's Easter Peter I've been doing
I've been baking loaves today I saw no I
got some some loaves of bread cooling
down on my stove ask me in a month when
I'm out of yeast but you said you didn't
have any fools but we lost him
yeah two go-getters yeah yeah no no fish
so but I'll tell you what the smallest
the smallest roast pork that the store
had this week means four pounds oh wow
so that's the smallest one and I'm the
only meat-eater in my house so balanced
it's not a problem I say smoke that
puppy up and go for it
oh you know what it's it's in the slow
cooker it's a slow cooker yeah so that
it's gonna be that and and a loaf of
bread just to stop up the gravy you know
coffee break today I bought myself one
was selling used is this the one that
you were talking about the hundred and
fifty dollar yeah 150 US dollar dream
server thing with 96 gigs of RAM 64 okay
dude oh you know how do you know how
this makes me feel I mean I've got the
rack in the studio and I'm I'm looking
for like I'm on Amazon in my cart I have
a server chassis that's
250 dollars already you know that's just
the chassis then I've got the drive cage
to be able to hot swap drives is another
hundred and eleven dollars and it's the
year talk in 150 bucks for a server with
64 gigs of RAM and how many hot swap
Bay's are included in that like six or
something like that on those ones yeah
no I yeah you just have to find a second
one for Robbie and get it there man yeah
I think I gotta find me a deal like that
because what I need is I need a storage
unit basically with hot swap bays
because we're always running out of
storage at the studio and I want to I
thought about just swapping the drives
in our old Dell what is it that I have
bill do you remember it's I think it's
an RR 510 or something like that
just yeah yeah so it's an okay server
but I'd like to have something that's
just dedicated storage rather than also
virtual appliances and also my you know
everything else running on it because I
find yeah sometimes it's not the best
performance so I'm a dreamer yeah soul
booze for soldiers over there living the
dream there you go I just saw Ron there
Ron what did you you changed your
monitor setup or something actually my
wife's computer oh you're looking the
other way
like full immersive surround sound in
there or those do I have 5.1 surround
here very nice yeah so you got the
speakers behind him - yeah hey cool a
BPO not you attract Todd to say
something I just wanted to know sabi
what was the story behind that server
that you that you do you know what the
history of it is well it was a it was a
white van down by the river
[Laughter]
posting that it has been used as a
VMware server in a datacenter and this
was the last unit he had left the
kindest that's just the kind of stuff
where you need to be on the in the right
spot at the right time to be able to
pick up I appointed him in the county
and next to him was a giving away
over Iraq shelf the big house when the
blade servers operating he waited and he
called the guy on here just in the
listing so Biddle it be it's about be
finding the listing at the right time
yeah but the listing that you showed us
also said that it included the 19-inch
server rack rails yeah in addition to
the server yeah yeah another $150 value
on there yeah that your your expense was
worth just the rails very great exactly
them well they would make a real orange
one and I got a degree but is I limited
to about five days of her life but
everybody
of values on it Oh every idea we are
there they are books about other
Bookshare audiobooks for example yeah if
I get caught they're about to that fella
with the one that I'm raising them a
wife oh go to I blow audiobooks yeah
that's cool good deal 30 quid Wow they
would a didn't work I got another one
the first one to work in the ink back up
parts configured a few things so cool
now it has two Xeon processors and so do
you have to pay your electricity bill
solve using a little over C hundred
watts I think I'm in it as well only had
one dinner to add one little wobbly
wonderful I've got wood bear one table
where Dilmun done we're done away from
where the ball don't go okay yes yogi
down I'm alarmed I never you have never
seen before
it was complaining that the second their
power supply units did not have power
yeah you only had one of the you only
had one of the power cables going in
yeah
usually use the failover as a as a
replacement you exactly I think you went
oh and Bobby's a computer part that you
do love the food quality that was Bob
today did you remember that about a year
ago I don't miss a Peter I think you I
thinking about you remember
and yet that's five minutes will draw it
on a remember SAS drives yeah yes yeah
yeah I do remember yeah no no oh okay
yes yeah that makes sense
yeah that's where those came from yeah
daddy look what we did
ready one two the book book drive danger
oh yeah speaking of their power on the
backup power again my friend with the
big grid or a 20 18 years ago he was
living he was he was attending high
school and he lived in his local city in
the city and he had ups that held his
computer up for 45 minutes I think it
was the first show we had and then the
power went out the whole county lost
power for seven days but after the
probably being gone for 30 minutes he
walked across the street to our local he
knew the again the guys at the camera
and he borrowed to upss that had a
combined backup power for eight days and
the program was up for seven it was the
only one in the entire county who had a
working computer and he had internet
access so that the isp had their own
yeah work we've got remember how bo was
talking about how a marriage ride has
this giant UPS system hooked up to their
manes so we've got we've got something
like that at work so it's like in the
server room
giant unit that's connected directly to
the to the panel but then on the roof
we've also got a diesel generator so as
soon as the power goes off the UPS kicks
in and it powers all the outlets in the
place and then the diesel generator
comes on so the UPS is really only there
for the you know 10-15 seconds it takes
for the diesel to kick in
and then the diesel just will run and
run and run and it I don't know how they
even it has some kind of direct feed for
gas I don't know how that works well I
was gonna say till the diesel runs out
but it doesn't they don't ever have to
put diesel in it so they must have gas
lines coming in for for the diesel
because unless it's propane or maybe
natural gas I could be wrong about it
being diesel about the Sears Tower in
the middle of us they have in the
basement I think they have two diesel
locomotive engines do to provide power
backup power for the entire in the
entire building and if the power of
power runs out those to this legend can
supply power for for two whole days and
that's not a that's not a well-known
fact either by the way the what you
would think of as a diesel locomotive on
that runs on the railway lines not
actually pure diesel it's diesel
electric it's the electric motors that
run the yum that drives the drive wheels
that moved to think forward that these
are was only there to supply electricity
I
there must be batteries involved there
somewhere so that these weren't there
hydrants load up the batteries and in
the batteries drive the electric motor
the electric motor drives the actual
drive wheels dilemma those guess
generator for the loaders yes correct
yep pretty imperson go ahead
but I did you know that you know we'll
run everything on a Japanese to get
click-click click-click would you do
that over over the provider radar well
they had to write a diet you noble
though you ginger job two noble
generators I want to blew up to drive
that thing and it was about half a mile
long just full of razor tennis and it
move our veterans were usually above the
horizon laid off and I don't know what
their problem here but it was made out
yet remember that the verbal used to get
only on HF where they were used oh
sometimes called interphase a blip it
bit bit bit bit bit yeah yeah yeah well
as that was Genoa for Graham before
inaudible at the nuclear power on the
end of it some wonder what I need out
yeah yeah what's also interesting about
renewable plant that blew up it's not
that many years ago that it was still
operational
you know future almost 20 years after it
blew up it was still providing power in
their remaining now I didn't know that
but no one is allowed to live in the
city since 85 or so all right mr. Robie
I have some deep theory to talk to you
about I'm good I'm good at geekery thank
you I appreciate that I have been
researching fine time some more because
I've been trying to figure out how the
hand movement should work and I think
it's okay to to let the second hand just
go click click click click and I think
it's ok to let the minute hand just go
click click click for each minute that
ticks by yeah I can't do that with the
hour hand because if I did that with the
hour hand it would go from 12 o'clock or
and indistinct right - - yeah and then
jump I can't do that with you it would
look pretty it was a pretty day so I'm
gonna have to figure out where probably
every I think what I'll do is update the
hour-hand every five minutes just
because it's a 60 minute you know in
twelve twelve hour and all that so every
five minutes seems to be appropriate so
I think what I'll do is update the hour
hand position every five minutes so but
probably going to be something like that
right because it we did it in fact it
wouldn't say yeah yeah they move every
digit well yeah that's what it sounds
like yeah so is there a reason vp9 that
you couldn't update it like on regular
like I don't know ten second intervals
like is there is it gonna take too much
power that the pine time can't handle it
do you think or are you just trying to
really severely optimize it so that it's
really really smooth think we lost vp9
did we lose them Oh we'll just pretend
that he's ignoring firmware has been
updated yeah I remember a friend of mine
he and his wife when they got the first
child I he almost fell off his chair
laughing yeah the name he gave he gave
him it's the name of a famous Norwegian
pop song and he has never heard of the
song beer or he and M de child so it was
clear he was pleased when I am I gave
him a copy
a sympathy of the song and it was made
in the 80s and people are still singing
it and the artist is still playing on
gigs I'm sure so and yet he hasn't had
never heard it was from anybody anybody
doing anything like for for Easter where
you're you're using technology to be
able to like is anyone doing any suzune
family gatherings or anything like that
I've seen some people are doing those
kinds of things all rival fellowship is
doing a phone conference but everybody
in the Fellowship is not quite up to
zoom level so you know looking to
possibly do future meetings with zoom
but I'm gonna actually be the IT
consultation person and kind of college
person see what kind of devices they
have oh yeah see and talk them through
the process to be able to to log on and
you zoom so cool you know one thing I
like about zoom is that it is really
really simple to setup and they get a
lot of flack for that amazingly it's
it's too easy they you know they're
working around security and stuff like
that it makes about the client that is
recording meetings it's not possible at
least on the links it's not possible to
save the password and yeah save the
password yeah how come you can't do that
or you can't do that on Android but but
do you need the password like you guys
don't need to enter the password when
you click the link on our website right
it's either it's either the the link or
a password so the password is only
needed if you don't have the link
I haven't been using the link I can just
signing in and the password simple
enough so it's not yeah I use my android
phone and it requires a password each
time oh really
so you have to enter the password oh so
maybe I just don't see that because I am
the the host so it's a little bit
different because I'm already logged
into the host account must be different
for me to create zoom meetings do you
have this do you have to actually
purchase a subscription well can you get
a free subscription that you can use the
free version if you want to keep it
below 40 minutes if you want to exceed
40 minutes then you have to have a paid
subscription which is 20 bucks a month
so right okay I opted for that because I
realize and recognize that the show is
going to have to evolve through this so
we're gonna have to use zoom or some
similar technology but zoom is like the
easy which even tearful quickly you know
set up as a breeze kind of solution but
being able to get Sasha on from out east
for example you don't have to have a
solution in place in 40 minutes is not
going to be enough time and so of course
it's it's certainly worth the worth the
investment for us to have that to see
the interactions between the three of
you and she is not physically present up
until now is to see the physical
interactions between yeah like all the
high fives we go on danger and I use
webcam and we open local local great and
we look at each other that talked about
it cheaper we saw bedroom but we'll pay
for that like as we're there like
if I could go up over each other yeah
that's interesting
I've only ever really thought of
TeamViewer as for like remote support
rather than for meetings but yeah I
guess that could work which reminded me
Peter of what I was up to yesterday so
remember I had mentioned last week that
code ninjas was doing a Easter egg hunt
virtually because the kids can't
actually get together so that was
happening yesterday so my youngest who's
9 he couldn't get connected so he the I
guess our family phone wasn't up to the
to the quality that it needed so so he
actually ended up using my phone which I
normally use which I'm using right now
for our zoom meeting and I didn't have
any kind of backup so I tried to get on
with my pine Book Pro and just it just
rejected it I don't know if there's a
what I haven't spent enough time to look
at it but I couldn't get online so but
what was interesting is that they used
screen sharing within zoom so they had
all the kids in a zoom meeting and then
the hosts shared a screen which was kind
of looking out at the at the world so
that you that people could also watch
what was going on with the Easter egg
hunt so that was kind of cool they had
over a thousand kids was being Minecraft
they did roblox and minecraft Oh No so
it started with roblox so they did that
for well from noon until 2:30 and then
at 2:30 they wrapped that up to get
ready for the Minecraft and they started
that at 3:00 and went till 4:00 so when
you had the multi service running you
had cameras that were virtual point of
view that was ooming around all over the
place right yeah yeah that was so it was
the same technology
I guess they they probably just had
their player in there somewhere
okay and so what what the viewers on
Zoom we're seeing was kind of a wide
shot of the world with all the kids
running around
that's cool yeah that was pretty neat
how they use technology to do that so so
how far into the geekery did I feel like
getting to before the before the
internet quit on me yeah where do we get
I had a question for you and I forget
whatever yes oh okay I think I got as
far as I was asking I was asking about
the performance if there was a reason
that you were looking to go with such
increments or like is it a performance
thing or do you think that the that the
pine phone or the pine time could
actually do increments even more
frequently without it affecting
performance like could you do for
example ten second increments for the
hour hand I could I could but the thing
is that the X Y coordinates from the
center to wherever the hour hand you
know it's tends to for some period of
time because of the resolution of the
screen it's not going to move anyway you
know between ah between the first minute
and the fifth minute it's very likely
that the XY coordinate of that hour hand
is going to be the same around often as
I want but only just redrawing the same
location each time it doesn't make they
see yeah okay so I don't care too much
about the performance the I'm gonna try
and make it work first and it certainly
has to look good it doesn't need to be
you know so retro that literally the
hour-hand jumps from twelve o'clock to 1
o'clock and then one o'clock that that
would be a bit that would be a bit too
too too too crazy so yeah I can't wait
to see how this looks I can't wait to
hear her though we've had this thing
Shep you like that one it should be
opening soon yeah I just got to figure
out how one time interval is I just
haven't done the calculations yet but I
was also looking at the at the pine
phone and specifically looking at the Oh
phone oh application
that I had questions from boa about a
couple of days ago and so there's not
not actually much in the way of
documentation on the website so I just
went ahead and downloaded the thing yeah
download it builds I got it to build
them both me my Linux boxes I don't
think it'll run I haven't tried to run
it yet but it which does feel and I've
been researching the code it uses this
thing called D bus have you ever used B
bus Robbie or no I mean I know that I
have but I can't recall it was for
whatever zone D bus looks very much like
what what I'm used to back when I worked
in the core BER world it's a message bus
where you stick a message in one end you
know if you're a publisher you'll put a
messaging money and those that message
bus just lets those messages travel all
across the the bus and anybody who's
interested in the message will will
consume that message and we'll take out
okay if they've got any interest on it
so it looks like that how oh so no works
there is no as far as I can see there
isn't a UI component to it so there's
not there's no part to it that says go
display this this dial pad you know the
the number pad to dolly yeah it must be
a separate application that does that
and that separate application must use
the D bus to talk to odd phone oh and
it's trigger off now out phone oh by the
way has to react when for instance
there's an incoming phone call or a text
message comes in or something like that
and so it has to put a message on the
bus to say hey I got a phone call what
do you want me to do about it or I got a
text message yeah go somebody somebody
go display this here's the message I
don't care about anything after that is
the message just send it on it does have
functionality to take any contacts that
are in a SIM card which won't be many
it'll be like 200 messages or 200
contacts or something and it can convert
those two
very rudimentary use a card and then
export those it is it can do that but
that's all it does so there's no other v
card or other connectivity in that in
that application but I'm aware also be
p9 these are all the things that you're
learning just from reading the manuals
and reading the forum's no reading the
source code reading code okay so I can't
imagine okay I can't imagine how much
you're gonna learn and how how quickly
you're gonna come up with ideas once you
have the actual device and can start
tinkering oh I can't eat I can take her
now because the device will be running
Linux so I can build all this stuff on
my desktop to get it to work and then
literally just the only question I have
in mind is when the prime phone runs the
Linux by default you have to log on with
a username password before you get any
access at all now the main phone if it's
running Linux it must log on with the
default user password and it must be a
non root password it would be crazy to
to run run as a root user on that device
what are the capabilities here how do I
build this so that it works in a user
environment not a you know not a system
environment or anything like that
because I don't want to build a daemon
that is gonna run and sit in the root
context if all its dealing with this
just the contacts that belong to this
particular user and say yeah so mmhmm
yep so I've got a figural lenio figure
it hair metal runs and the question
there is going to be under what context
us a phono run does it permit a system
country what does it run at the user
uses first all these questions I still
have to answer but I figure I can't wait
to get my hands on these devices - yes
you have to buy you a point-by-point
phone as well now having access to the
source code is important sources all
about there's no
doubt about that you know yeah and it'll
be you know people like us and people
like bp9 who will say oh I really wish I
could do this so let's make it do this
yep and then we'll re-release that code
to the general public and people can
start using that code so that's clear
I'm not looking to modify the Oh phone
oh application yeah I'm looking to build
a separate application that it can call
if they choose to and in order to do
that they would have to they would have
to know we I live on the D bus right
yeah so that they could make it cut send
a message to the D bus so would you a PR
for Oh phone Oh perhaps to be able to
add that a pull request so would you
code it into their software and then
provide them there no I'm not looking to
modify Oh phone oh they need to be able
to communicate with your Dana agreed
agreed
I think that somebody who's more is more
familiar with the Oh phone Oh code
should probably do that I'll be
certainly oh I'll be happy to have it go
in it I have no prey on that I've done
that before with with vim you know the
VI program that runs bread somebody in
Holland runs that project he accepted a
patch from me to for the C text files
for for COBOL so that so that vim could
could properly syntax highlight a COBOL
program he had all the common names and
everything all the column numbers are
not wrong but that was no no no trouble
to fix that had some problems with week
he got a wrap up guys my change was just
the instructions for how you do
translations I was simplifying BST a
little bit so it's not as complicated as
before what the dot on the back well
they they proposed a target on the back
your chair
I don't think it is I don't think it is
but it's similar isn't it it is very
similar to our to our fabric yeah
yes I did you daily in the IG 30
shillings guide made up a story the
great oz did a book and so did you the
gems rate and it was the first phone
Johanna and they will bulge it I would
get on Maggie's got it or not will
because I'll send you the link subtype
and I made you up and I created a data
as a fraud all money away as well as big
the guy wrote got rich go I got a 29
it's like random at that time a stage as
well I think they got to put the link on
on on the other side and they oh great
day
it's going very good like that sounds
very interesting alright guys we'll have
a wonderful rest of your afternoon happy
Easter and I'll see you again tomorrow
see ya happy you study care
