here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
the last major windows update broke some
systems with particular antivirus
software installed and it's seemingly
getting worse
Marc Hutchins the security researcher
who stopped wanna cry has pled guilty to
the malware charges we reported in 2017
samsung has pushed back the launch of
its highly anticipated folding
smartphone after multiple reviewers
reported the screams broke within days
and Microsoft's Azur machine learning
tech to good use in a grant program
designed to give computing resources to
scientists working on environmental
sustainability programs these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 dot TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories for
the slight linux by us
Jeff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
Sanjay Rickman and here the top stories
were following this week the last major
windows update broke some systems with
particular antivirus software installs
and it's seemingly getting worse last
week Microsoft halted updates to its
Windows 7 and 8.1 operating systems as
well as some Windows server
installations running Sophos and avast
security solutions the update caused
user machines to lock up or fail to boot
since then the list of known issues for
the update was itself updated to
acknowledge compatibility issues with
Avira and Acura bit antivirus with
Microsoft temporarily blocking updates
to those affected systems too over the
weekend it was revealed that Microsoft
is also investigating compatibility
issues for systems with mcafee antivirus
installed affected computers either
freeze outright or start acting unusable
slow when you attempt to log into
Windows you can temporarily workaround
the issue by booting into safe mode
disabling your antivirus and then
rebooting your system normally while
Windows 10 pcs don't appear to be
affected by this particular issue a new
issue cropped up this week surrounding
the coming May update on Windows 10
systems that either have a USB Drive or
SD card connected the update has been
put on hold because updating these
systems may result in your drive letters
being reassigned breaking your Windows
machine
according to Microsoft this issue will
be resolved in a future servicing update
for Windows 10 for now don't leave SD
cards or USB drives connected to your
Windows 10 computer
just in case wow windows thanks for that
it's been a great month once again
hasn't it hasn't even been a year since
October Wow
so ok so the way to get your computer
working again is to turn off your
antivirus hey good practice number one
have an up-to-date antivirus could
practice number two keep your operating
system up-to-date what if those two
things conflict right holy cow
hi and then this USB SD card situation
like thing yeah good thank goodness they
have noticed it in advance right cuz it
could have been last year where they
just push the update and then broke
everything that's October yeah right
yeah I leave here at the studio I leave
an SD card almost always plugged into
the computer because when I leave on a
Wednesday night after we record the show
like there are things happening and one
of the SD cards from one of the cameras
has always plugged in right so if you
could imagine that this update what it
does is basically like you've got your C
Drive you've got your you plug in an SD
card and now you've got a J Drive and an
H Drive and all these other things
happening right and if you use SBC's
maybe you've got a whole bunch of
different Drive letters and like active
but what happens is this update then
garbles those up so now your C Drive is
your F Drive and oh my goodness so then
of course nothing will boot things are
in the wrong places is not finding
things like like I really don't
understand how they could possibly get
something like that wrong I just don't
get it it's kind of Windows 3.1 here
folks
yeah like I thought we had this licked I
thought we knew the difference between
an A and a C Drive right but no
apparently not Linux does it completely
different this is why Linux is is
winning completely yes absolutely we use
uu IDs so really Windows just wants you
to turn off your antivirus and unplug
all your things and just update oh yeah
we'll just turn off your updates and
turn off your antivirus in order to make
things go Linux actually uses uu IDs
unique identifiers for
each device so your hard drive for
example in all the partitions in your
hard drive have a unique identifier and
that identifier is then mounted to a
mount point so okay regardless you could
you could unplug all your hard drives
and then plug them in in a completely
random order to different cables and it
will still boot because it gets the
unique identifier from the partitions of
the drive
that's Linux do you think they get it
right right yeah do you think that
Windows could just like pay attention to
how to get it right a little I think
they're gonna have to start right it's
timed they're learning things from Linux
but that's one of those things that like
Linux has really got that down and
that's and that's why we're using uu IDs
and not dev assignments anymore right
your FS tab used to have dev slash SD be
one well now it has a UUID and that's
why because you can unplug it yeah
changes or if a drive gets pulled it
still boots up and still everything ends
up where it's supposed to be that's
forward thinking Linux thank you Oh done
not so much on Yulin windows marcus
Hutchins the security researcher who
stopped wanna cry has pled guilty to the
malware charges we reported in 2017 on
episodes 516 &amp; 518 we reported that mr.
Hutchins was arrested but pled not
guilty he was free under a thirty
thousand dollar bond but had to wear a
GPS tracking device last year though he
was hit with a superseding indictment
introducing new charges related to the
malware Hutchins was charged with
developing and in partnership with
another individual identified in court
documents as vini disseminating u-pass
kit and Kronos malware the latter of
which has for years been used to steal
banking information this activity
occurred between July 2012 and September
2015
per court records four years prior when
Hutchins was credited with discovering
wanna cries Killswitch Hutchins who is
now prominent and respected a respected
security researcher says quote as you
Avia where i've pled guilty to two
charges related to writing malware in
the years prior to my career in security
I regret these actions and accept full
responsibility for my mistakes
having grown up I've since been using
the same skills that I miss you several
years ago for constructive purposes end
quote
according to a plea agreement filed with
the Eastern District of Wisconsin the
British researcher agreed to plead
guilty to two of 10 counts while the
other eight were dropped each count
carries up to five years in prison and
up to a 250 thousand dollars in fines
through throw throw that though the plea
agreement states that an acceptance of
responsibility could contribute to a
lighter sentence to me I think he's a
little bit like of a hero cuz he he
found the kill switch for wanna cry he
used his evil minds for good right no
yeah but it's not an evil mind sash I
think we're growing like we are now our
kids my kids are growing up in a time
where ten year olds are so immersed in
tack right that they can become amazing
hackers right when I was a kid when I
was just like my kids age mm-hmm I had
an X T computer that I would pull out
from under my bed and it had a CRT
monitor that I hid in my closet and I
would hook it all up through the the CGA
panel in the back and and and I would
hack away on that but my hacking was
limited to the devices that I had there
was no internet it hadn't been invented
yet well the Internet had the World Wide
Web had not so there was no connectivity
for me to the World Wide Web right
because it didn't exist yet so my
hacking was limited to the box that was
under my bed right now someone with my
skill set at that age
could be like you know I'm bored the
Friday night I'm gonna screw around and
I'm gonna start hacking away so you two
were an evil genius just without the
tool I would say it may be a genius but
not an evil one okay I okay so I don't
really what I'm saying is yes he did I
actually really liked the fact that he
admits yes he did bad but then he turned
it around he's he works for security now
he's using his skills for good I
honestly think that he probably saved
the world far more money than the money
that he would be charged for is his fine
they can take that into account right I
think Selenia yeah it's a tough thing
and I think parents get your kids in the
room and and and let them hear this that
this is a wake up call to us okay so our
kids the young people growing up in
today's world we're so connected and we
are very capable on computers and very
capable of hacking and we can put that
to malicious user we can put it to good
use
yeah I could put things to malicious use
as a kid and I did and it was limited to
my school network right and it never got
outside of that network it was limited
to the computer lab you know right
nowadays it's not limited like that we
have no borders as far as what we can
hack so our young people need to
understand the the decisions that you
make right now they have lasting
consequences this young man is now a
security researcher and a darn good one
he's awesome and he's making a
difference in the world he has saved
people from some very serious malware
mm-hmm and because of a decision that he
made as a child I won't even call it a
mistake because everything is a learning
experience but because of this decision
that he made to do something malicious
or you know what the government will
call malicious because in stealing
credentials to bank accounts
you can call that benign or you can call
it just fun or whatever you want to call
it yes who knows yeah out of theft and
so it is malicious as far as you know
what's right and wrong goes so now he's
having to face ten years in prison and
thousands and thousands $60,000 worth of
fines because of this decision that he
made as a kid right even though now he's
grown up and he's saying you know now I
would never do that now I'm using my
powers for good
exactly yeah well and he knows the
capacity like he knows what it takes to
do these these hacks and these thefts
and because he's smart enough to know
how so he he can block people like
himself yeah right but the issue that
we're up against right now with you
young people is that you have the
abilities and I understand you have the
abilities but you haven't got the life
experience that he has you haven't yet
grown up and it's okay to be a kid it's
okay to be young mm-hmm and to enjoy
that and to learn and grow and and you
know and and hack but be very mindful
that you'd need to be mindful that what
you do now could have an impact on you
as an adult right and and on other
people as well especially if it's
something malicious and you and it may
be fun but it's really big picture is
you know you can cause a lot of damage
and wreak a lot of havoc but like let's
just be very mindful of the fact that
you just got to be willing to recognize
that it's tough I mean when I was a kid
I didn't want to admit I was a kid right
and when kids are kid when when you're a
teenager you don't want to admit that
you're still growing up and you know
what you have an idea and there's
probably a little bit of doubt in your
mind like I wonder if I could do this
and you're you're just wondering so
you're trying and then you do it and
you're like oh I can and then it's done
already right and then it's too late
yeah so so kids I mean if I can just
give you any advice just just think
twice and even ask ask an adult and ask
somebody like is this gonna have lasting
impact
it's like don't post pictures of
yourself naked on the internet like
writes it this is just too grown-up it
makes sense but to a kid maybe it's you
know there's the temptation there but
it's like you can never undo that you
can never you can never you can never
get it back back yeah and then you're
gonna deal with that when you're an
adult and you just don't want that in
your past so just just like take a
moment stop what you're doing
listen to Robbie no thank you
I just wish I could just sit down with
you just so hopefully you hear me out
okay yeah email us comment whatever it
takes I'm here for you
Samsung has pushed back the launch for
reported the screens broke within days
Samsung's Galaxy fold was unveiled in
February following years of speculation
about the possibility of folding phones
but its initial reviews have raised
questions about whether the technology
was rushed out before it was ready the
Galaxy fold was set to hit the market in
the US this friday but samsung said in a
statement that it would now carry out
further tests and make improvements
before announcing a new release date in
the coming weeks the news comes after
several journalists reported issues with
the devices that they'd been given to
review on April 17th Bloomberg reporter
Mark gurmann tweeted that his device was
unusable just two days in with photos
showing that the screen had gone mostly
black among other complaints was a story
on the verge headlined my samsung galaxy
fold screen broke after just one day at
least some of the complaints have come
from users who had peeled off a thin
layer of polymer from the screen that
Samsung said was not intended to be
removed but issues with the Galaxy fold
seem to run deeper the company's
statement identified the hinge mechanism
and substances found inside the device
as potential problem areas Samsung's
problems come less than three years
after its exploding phone Sega which saw
the company recalled Galaxy Note 7 after
battery defects caused
to catch on fire never a good sign
no so they're very tenacious like
they're really trying and I like the
idea of advancing ideas in tack I don't
understand why I might need a folding
phone but I can understand that you need
to create a folding phone for the next
possible foam that I might need which
maybe is a phone that wraps right around
my wrist or something well but you think
a folding phone so a phone yeah
form factor yes it's in your pocket that
then unfolds to twice the size basically
a tablet yeah so it's like having a
tablet that fits in your pocket that
then you can I don't dislike it I I
don't think you have to push something
to this point where things are falling
apart after really they've got to be
first though it's a very competitive
market right oh yes oh yeah everybody
but Apple has announced a folding phone
that they're working on and it's like
okay so Samsung's got to be first
they've got to be first they've got to
be innovators do they have subsidiaries
that they can like the like a Samsung
the fall boy because it really feels
like Samsung is the fall boy and I've
got some subsidiary that that they're
really actually gonna release under
because they're really messing up a lot
of times with trying to be innovative
but maybe a because you know Apple just
waits for everything to build waits
until they'll wait two years after the
the for an hour look at that it just
doesn't have a headphone jack but you
know whatever you don't need that
because you've got Bluetooth headphones
that will sell you for three times as
much as they're worth but I will say
Samsung listen to me here okay they're
listening if you put a polymer film on a
screen and that has the possibility that
I might think it's a protective if I can
take it off I'm taking it off yeah I and
I'm picky I'll pick it's tough so don't
give me the opportunity yeah
rightly uh-huh
we'll see how that shapes up I mean I'm
interested to see what they come up with
but it is again it's that they're
pushing it to the market way faster than
mm-hmm they probably I still I don't
care so much about the folding phone I
want something I want the next thing
like the idea that hasn't happened yet I
want whatever the folding phone brings
us Oh like I want that the folding phone
man I used to have a flip phone a 16 K
screen sounds nice like I'd like maybe
it's like a leap pad like stepping-stone
technology right like okay so now we've
got a folding phone what else can we do
right maybe you're right in that regard
I hear what you're saying like okay now
we can do this exactly so maybe we can
have a laptop where we do this exactly
and suddenly we've got a four foot wide
screen right so the folding phone man
whatever it's a folding phone but it's
this that's the step that I'm I'm
interested in like three steps from
there the folding phone needs to be
developed properly so we can learn how
not to make it fall apart and have the
screen go black so that what you do feel
they need to be a sticker so that you
can you know fan out an umbrella of
amazing mm-hmm sounds good I like your
style and apparently you are waiting for
Apple yes sorry for you like Microsoft
Azure machine learning tackle but to
good use in a grant program designed to
give computing resources to scientists
working on environmental sustainability
programs
yeah Microsoft wants to make accessing
powerful AI in machine learning
technology more practical for science
and scientists and environmental
researchers which is why it started AI
for Earth in 2017 in the mere two years
since Microsoft founded AI for Earth it
has awarded over 230 grants to teams in
63 countries covering for research areas
climate change agriculture biodiversity
and waters grants come in two forms data
labeling services which help get large
data bases ready
or ai processing and Microsoft Azur
computer credits grant applicants are
able to apply for one or both forms of
grants Microsoft has built two API
specifically for AI for Earth and has
stated that it continues to work on more
currently available is a land coverage
mapping API and a species classification
API the api's are available to anyone
who wants to use them the uses for AI in
protecting Natural Resources is vast
science generates data both collating
and transforming that data into action
can be difficult when you add that the
sheer volume of data available things
get even more difficult especially if
all that data isn't available to
everyone who may need it AI Firth takes
a step toward rectifying that by
offering services to organizations that
might not be able to access them
otherwise and by centralizing data from
government research agencies from around
the globe in Azure cloud
in addition grant applicants that apply
for data labeling have their data
published on Microsoft Azure for the use
of other researchers further expanding
the base of knowledge needed to turn AI
into a tool for improving the planet
it's like an AI Wikipedia yeah how cool
is that it is so cool and anything that
will help our planet I'm with you we're
in yes we're in that was timely cuz it
was just Earth Day true true that yeah
and this is really what is needed
because we are now getting to that point
where datasets are huge mm-hmm like we
learned about the the eight telescopes
that were used to photograph the black
hole well it took massive amounts of
data and years to process like I think
the photo was actually taken in 2017 do
you realize that and it took this long
to be able to announce it and show it
off
well that through the power of AI and
and artificial intelligence machine
learning and the power of them like a
massive supercomputer network can really
expedite those kinds of processes
scientific learning and and scientific
imitation right we can we can share the
knowledge then we kind of stand on the
shoulders of those before us and we
cannot learn new things you're not
learning from the beginning of time to
this point you're learning from where
the research has gotten to this point
and forward we can build ourselves up we
can get much faster at learning what
you're saying is relying my mind right
now Sasha because I'm thinking about how
AI is now like the new like hand-me-down
information like right is a I going to
carry our data for the next generation
yes what yes it is I'm team a don't just
think about how that's going to impact
three generations from now right when
like look at technology and how it's
progressed because we've been passing
down our knowledge year after year and
it's compounding right so you you know
what what we knew in 1950 it's kind of
crazy how far we've come
yeah like look at AI since or not AI but
it well definitely i i but look at VR
right since we were children
right like mind-blowing how far this has
come and those of you who are our age or
beyond know exactly what I'm talking
about
mm-hmm so it's only it's going to be
amazing to witness the things that are
gonna unfold I am just eagerly
anticipating all the best yes let's hope
that there are moral people in control
there will be to your last public
service announced Oh fantastic okay
thank you
excellent run for president or whatever
you need to do let's get a look at what
coin gecko tells us about the
cryptocurrency market as of 1800 hours
on this day that we are recording which
is April 24th 2019 Bitcoin is up
big-time
another two hundred and eleven dollars
and seventy cents us in your pocket if
you have a single Bitcoin it's up at
five thousand four hundred thirty four
dollars and sixty nine cents like coin
is
a little bit 7255 us etherium is also
down 160 401 Monaro is a 6752 stellite
is one of the little guys gained 0.07 10
thousands of sense basically static at
one point six three ten thousandth of a
cent and turtle coin at one point three
one don't forget if you are gonna trade
in cryptocurrency or mine or whatever
you're gonna do it's always volatile and
the market never closes it's open 24/7
so plan not to get any sleep right I
suppose big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers of for submitting
stories test this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sacha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson
[Music]
[Applause]
