welcome to category five technology TV
it's the first show of January 2020
we're going to be looking at how tech
can help me to achieve my goals when it
comes to my kind of New Year's
resolutions our live recordings are
trusted only to solid state drives by
Kingston Technology revive your computer
with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
the Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 TV welcome
to the show everybody it's so great to
have you here happy new year as we kick
off 2020 with our very first show of the
new year and it's it we had a little bit
of time off which is weird for us
because we've never ever done that
before
and I'll tell you what by halfway
through our little break we're we're in
our private staff chat room talking
about how much we miss all of you and
can't wait to be back and here we are it
was too long too long a break yeah well
and and you guys got the extra week
because of the weather here in Ontario
Canada and incidentally and then all of
a sudden it was like perfect dry weather
for a couple weeks
yes today the forecast
wait no but school buses are canceled
nobody's even on the road it's like it's
like yeah it was pretty quiet in town
it's true and but it wasn't nearly like
it was three weeks true but this
weekend's gonna be nasty is it yeah for
Oh like a whole slew of freezing rain
and bad snow and like I really don't
feel like working this weekend you don't
have to
mm not so much hmm well then you drive a
ways to the city as well right yeah
there's a run I'm like all over Ontario
I mean one day I'm Kingston to Hamilton
oh wow yeah okay long drive my commutes
like 10 minutes sorry don't mean to rub
that in is now you were away the week
that that I was here all by myself yes
and so you missed out on your Christmas
gift Jeff because I I got a sense of
what you've always wanted
I mean I kind of got a sense being set
up here I know it's not a setup it's a
gift because we love you yeah it's a
little late I know it's a belated
Christmas gift for Jeff but I thought
this is what he he just really seemed to
have this on his mind
okay kids can I find out what it is oh
yes myth balls don't throw it out a
Tesla cyber truck you just seemed to
have that on your mind Jeff and thank
you okay before we jump into it this
week I want to remind you to click on
the subscribe button on YouTube and also
you can click on that bell to make sure
that you get the notifications anytime
we are live this the past couple of
weeks for me have been interesting
personally because as the new year
approach
I started thinking you know am I going
to do a new New Year's resolution this
year and I thought never really stick to
it never really works out and then I had
some ideas and I started thinking that
maybe if I take a different approach I
can actually stick to these New Year's
resolutions buy more tech buy more tech
resolution I I mean I've got some extra
pounds right about here oh dude I
totally win that category and look
jiggle like a bowl full of jelly and and
I I always want to get rid of that but I
don't know how
well you could just edit it out oh I'm
removing it impost yeah a six-pack right
there but doesn't it like to me as like
this like I've never been physical
fitness guy I'm the computer nerd so I'm
at my computer desk 10 hours a day yes
but at the computer desk all day long
this stereotype doesn't usually like
it's not usually a ripped individual I
want to be that computer guy where they
call you to do the networking just
because the girls are like no that's not
my life yeah but I would like to be
healthier I'd like to live longer I'd
like to be here for my kids and I want
to be as healthy as I possibly can be
okay
and I think that the way to do that is
just I gotta shut off a couple of pounds
I know that maybe you're in the same
boat but I I don't know how to do it and
I always think about well I could go to
the gym well I don't have time to go to
the gym well I could get a person to do
anything right but I could get a
personal trainer well I don't have the
money for a personal trainer let alone
the time to go to the gym to get
personally trained it's nothing seems to
work
and I've tried cutting down on how much
I eat at meals
I've tried changing what kind of stuff I
eat at meals and it never seems to work
and slowly and slowly I've never really
like I've never packed on like a lot all
at once but like slowly gradually
getting a little bit bigger and bigger
each year and then metabolism change
yeah I'm 40 now right and so I'm
starting to look at that and thinking
okay I'm a quarter of the way through my
life always I just decided to take a
different approach okay so my approach
this year isn't to lose weight okay
my approach instead is to educate myself
about my health so that well I can find
the motivation and even arm myself with
the information that I need
in order to make better decisions that
make sense like it and so and I
it's practical I think that it's
possible and so that's why I wanted to
bring it to the show because I want you
to join me for this journey and we're
gonna see together where I end up so
then I started thinking okay well how
can I do this so I got on to Google the
search engine of choice and I just typed
in just on a whim I think it was
something like smart scale okay because
my scale is like the old dial kind and
step on it and it says one number you
step off it you step back on it and as
five pounds off from the first number so
I know it's not that which direction
it's going five minutes ago I was 10
pounds lighter I did this search to
start to see if there was technology
that I could do within a very reasonable
budget so the budget just so you know
that I set for myself as I said can I do
this for $100 so can I get everything
that I need in about what it would cost
I would imagine
for like an hour maybe two hours with a
trainer right how much does a gym cost
like you would I mine is $11 Wow oh
that's like one of those like like it's
a budget gym okay but then also I pay
for an app like a fitness training at
$50.00 a year
hmm okay which like I guess I always
imagined it more expensive but for me
it's the time thing more than the money
yeah if it was 11 bucks a month I could
do that but the time thing is not the
problem though with 11 dollars a month
it's not expensive enough that you feel
bad not going anyway your ways smarter
my way is just to say okay I'm gonna
budget a hundred bucks if I had some
Christmas money and I said I know this
is what I'm gonna do and I'm gonna see
if I can find technologies that because
we live in a time when technology exists
that we can do this that can help me on
this quest not to lose weight but to
educate myself about my health and then
you
turn probably lose some weight along the
way his lifestyle choice yeah so I'm not
a medical professional I don't know if
that's obvious or not it should be very
obvious but just a little disclaimer off
the top
we're not giving any medical advice here
today all we're talking about is
self-improvement through technology that
can help us to achieve those goals yeah
that's it
so it's just self-improvement and maybe
it will work for you maybe it'll work
for me I hope it'll work for me but
you're along for the ride and we're
gonna see I feel like at the end of the
year we need to do a like follow up to
this we're gonna check in every now and
again okay and in fact if you're a
patron patreon.com slash category-five
you're going to be receiving regular
updates as well you're gonna be able to
track my progress so it would be really
cool if others like were to also get on
board you're welcome to make social like
competitions and yeah right they're
fairly competition we're gonna have
category five Biggest Loser edition
all right so let's get into the first
device that I found okay keeping in line
with my budget this was thirty-five
dollars think about that for a second so
my first search was for a smart scale
not really knowing what I was looking
for right I need to just look up what my
smart scale costs okay cuz it's not that
cheap okay and so you can tell me if
maybe these are similar devices so let's
get into it
this I have a short link for you cap
five dot TV slash scale and let's open
it up and I have opened it and I've
paired it I received this yesterday so
I've already used it Oh Weiss okay so
I've stood on it twice so what's
different about the renfe smart scale
I'm calling the smart scale they do not
call it that that's not what they deem
it it's not just a scale okay what so
okay so why do they not call it a smart
scale because it's like well you see
these metal pieces yes so you can't use
it when you're wet don't get out of the
bath and stand on it makes sense this is
an electronic device and when I step on
it with my feet touching all of these
diodes I feel a little like dr. ho in my
foot oh just a sensation okay I'm going
to show you the app that that it's
actually paired with so you can see how
incredible this is just I'm looking down
at my notes so they they call it
bioelectric impedance analysis so using
these bio electric sensors it's able to
track a whole lot more than your
standard scale okay so for 35 bucks this
tracks ready yep okay my weight
obviously body fat percentage BMI water
percentage hmm you like I can tell how
much water weight I'm carrying fat free
body weight what would anyway if I
didn't have all this bad
yeah skeletal muscle muscle mass bone
mass visceral fat subcutaneous fat
protein basal metabolism and body age
a kiddy tells me all that really yeah
from your feet from my feet for 35 bucks
so of course it's much more than just
weight huh so I'm just gonna move the
box out of the way here just kind of
right over there so it looks like that
just like a scale right yes so funny
knowing that it's glass I'm like I
wouldn't want to step on that because I
break it a little it'll take like I
think it's like 300 pounds or something
like that
here's a quick correction this smart
scale is made using five millimeter
thick tempered glass it can support the
weight of up to 396 pounds or 180
kilograms you want to like observe the
manual make sure I did check that that
it would take weight yep and obviously
well it does have some support in the
middle there I did see one review where
somebody had broken it and I really felt
when I read that review like they didn't
read the warnings the the that you'd
have to step down you have to step down
on each of these sensors yeah I feel
like they must have stepped like smashed
down in the middle and cracked it or
something three that's just kind of how
it felt it certainly feels solid anyways
so with all those things that it's able
to track I'm able to find out like my my
body's age yes so yesterday when I first
tested myself I was 44 years old for
four years older than I'm supposed to be
that's not what's not bad but it's also
not great it's not 60 I kind of want to
do it except that I don't want to put my
bare feet on your scale well and I don't
want you to either because I don't want
it to change you're doing so good Rob
this is only you that can use it when
your wife couldn't stand but you multi
could you set up multiple users on that
scale that's a beautiful thing yes you
can okay however I'm holding my phone
right now
it's aired right now yeah so if you
stepped on this it would go into my hey
because I have to take my socks off and
step with my bare feet on yours it is
multi-user though which I thought was
cool because it's cool yeah my wife
could use it if she needed it or
wanted to but she has no use for it
she's gorgeous so I'm gonna just
actually bring up the app for you and I
want to show you what what the setup
process was like it was absolutely brain
dead simple to get this thing paired
into my phone so jumping into that all I
had to do was just open add the device
step on the scale once and then it
detected the device itself cool now this
is gonna be embarrassing I'm gonna step
on the scale and you can see it's
spinning there it's zapping my feet
right now so there I am 191 pounds
oh that's my starting point so what that
tells me I'm gonna change modes here and
I can actually do this live so that you
two can interact with me so this morning
I weighed myself again and I'm a little
bit lighter so I like my morning weight
I'm gonna use my weight and and I look
like I'm doing really really well I'm
down 3.2 pounds from last night Wow so
it's already tracking so by doing
morning and night it's actually tracking
those trends and where I'm at throughout
the day twice a day yeah to weigh
yourself yeah once in the morning once
when I'm getting my PJs on kind of thing
getting ready for a show so what's
interesting here in the app is that now
that it's gathered all this information
look at all that so not just my weight
but BMI body fat and so on so if I
actually touch my weight it shows me
where I fall on the scale
where I should be and where where I am
right so again
that doesn't tell me to lose weight that
shows me what is a healthy weight
considered considering where I should be
with my height and my my age right could
you use that and have displays without
pairing it to a smart device yeah you
can use it just just a standard scale
like if you want to just measure your
weight yeah absolutely but but I wanted
to do so much more
yes I've clicked on body fat here and it
shows my body fat is 24.5% which is just
on I'm gonna be a glass-half-full guy
and say that that's just on the edge of
acceptable I'm not gonna mention that
that's just on the edge of obesity but
yes I'm acceptable to obesity yeah
really mean so I want to actually bring
it down I'm gonna feel really really
good if I ever get down to like the
fitness area or in the middle low
acceptable range okay so that kind of
stuff helps me to just kind of start
setting goals so then I can click on all
of these things and I see my metabolic
age is 44 and it tells me the ideal
physical body age which today is 43 by
the way I lost a year overnight I had a
really good sleep great but that's only
tracking after two steps on the scale so
it's gonna get more and more accurate as
I go
ideal physical body age is two thirds of
the actual age so that again doesn't
tell me what to do doesn't tell me what
I should be doing it just gives me
Robbie the guy who doesn't have time to
go to the gym some kind of goal so I can
see that okay I would love to get down
to 42 within the next couple of weeks
right
and and start and and start seeing what
it takes to do those things
yes I can tell you as somebody who has a
smart scale that it is very motivating
that's all I wanted motivation and some
amount of direction yes like knowing
that hey I should try to get my age down
to in the 30s alright that'd be amazing
could you imagine so each of these items
has something else like if I click on
muscle mass I have high muscle mass
been working out as you can tell and all
that kind of stuff is here in the
interface it just makes it really really
accessible really easy for me to
understand as a kind of a noob now in
order to figure out like your BMI did
you have to put in parameters such as
your height yes okay so there was some
configuration on that end yes which was
surprisingly simple because his birthday
height which I just took off my driver's
license it allowed me to switch between
centimeters and in choice okay right so
it was really quick to set up really
easy to pair and awesome
hello so I'm really pleased with that I
think that's going to have a big impact
on my ability to to find and create some
goals for myself okay
now you said you wanted to learn more
about your health yeah other than just
seeing these stats yeah what does that
mean well the the goals that it shows so
if I fire back up my app here
so the the fact that for example it
shows this graph here that shows that if
I was 165 I'd be on the high end of
normal they use the try normal but the
the healthy weight yeah for my age and
height so that can be for me a goal yes
sorry I guess what I'm the leap I'm
trying to get to is how do you make
change there because if personally how
do I make it my life Danny on that
you're looking at it going I've tried oh
it's hopeless you know tried things in
the past but now I've got something
that's tracking me like how do you look
at that reinforcement I think so that's
my that's it's the fact that when you
make choices like okay instead of eating
pasta noodles I'm going to zucchini for
example how did you know
right and then you weigh yourself and
you're like oh wait that worked or meals
not gonna make a difference No so it's a
long term and lifestyle changes and
things like that for example I'm gonna
walk my dog a little more often right
okay so just getting out and doing that
kind of stuff right um I didn't part me
a fair bit of walking over the holidays
and really enjoyed walking while my
daughter shopped so she was doing her
Christmas shopping and I walk
walked and walked through the mall I
work so just a very simple way to do
something but yeah you mentioned
zucchini yes so my wife was making
spaghetti last night and I had already
told her that was gonna try to reduce my
car my carb intake because I read some
scientific studies that thought and
again not medical advice I don't know
all this stuff but I'm learning okay so
this for me I learned that my body is
burning carbohydrates because I'm taking
in so many carbs so then I'm not burning
any fat right but if I reduce my
carbohydrate intake it doesn't have the
carbs to burn so it's gonna be burning
some of my body fat so I'm gonna reduce
my body fat and get a little healthier
so that's something that I want to try
to do is try to bring down my carbs so
two examples from yesterday that were
really really easy so we were having
spaghetti for supper so instead of
spaghetti the sauce was already made and
pardon me I just simply spiralized a
zucchini and I sauteed it with some
garlic powder some olive oil and it was
really really good as a spaghetti
alternative right it was like spiralized
so big long stringy noodles of zucchini
I know you don't like zucchini you gotta
try this dude you gotta try it it was
really really good so I didn't take any
carbs on that can you spiralize pizza
and so then later later on in the night
pardon me and I've had this tickle all
week but so forgive me that's going
around yeah
later on in the night I wanted a snack
and I started looking at the chip bags
and the carbs are really high like 30
grams 35 grams of serving of potato
chips dehydrated chickpeas are way
better chickpeas okay
I've also heard kale chips so these are
just little ways that just by being
conscious of it Jeff so I'm conscious of
it so I'm starting to make decisions
where I say okay I'm not gonna have the
chips because I've already had enough
carbs today so I'm not gonna have 30 35
grams of carbs right and that's I'm not
counting no I don't I'm not counting
carbs I'm not counting cholesterol or
anything like that
I'm just saying okay if it's I'm aiming
for like 50 or less carbs per day at
grams and so if I'm approaching that
then I'm just not gonna have chips right
fair enough so okay this as you
mentioned kind of gives me positive
reinforcement motivation
exactly it lets me challenge myself in a
competitive way okay so I'm competing
with myself to say okay can I do this
I'm not start with myself or anything
like that I'm just I've got information
about myself that I can now use to try
to get healthier that's my goal that's
what I want to try so we join me for
that and over the course of the next
several months I would imagine I mean
let's see where I go so I've set my
target weight here as 150 it's I think
that's a fair goal I think you're gonna
look skinny at 150 I think so it says
that the high end of normal is 165 for
me so if I got to 150 that would be
insane apparently my ideal body weight
is 192 okay I think I would look
incredibly ill at 192 mm-hm I am above
my ideal body weight too but I'm happy
with where I'm at right like my ideal
body weight I think is 113 or 114 or
something for my height I would have to
lose almost 75 pounds to get to that mmm
like could you imagine taking 75 pounds
off me like I think I would look not
healthy hmm that's a lot how much would
you say you weighed when we met each
other Oh a lot younger back I was 151
days I think I was 205 okay yeah so 191
would see me yeah when I look back at
photos of when Jen and I were dating
yeah I was like the two 205 and like the
cheekbones were in and like I was quite
uh I don't know skinny is the right word
but compared to what I am now it was
like I would you know the wind bloweth
Jeff's gone okay try to go like 10
pounds Lord be right oh my goodness we
are talking wait just for those of you
who are wondering I'm five foot eight so
you can kind of get an idea where I fall
at 1 191 pounds or 187 so I clicked on
fat free body weight which i think is
kind of interesting like what if I
didn't have that extra fat right and it
says that I would be 141 point eight so
that's kind of I don't know my fat free
body weight hold on let me just what is
fat free body weight then am I not right
you're right you're right it's weird the
fat free body weight could but it's not
normal like to become fat that's like if
I had no fat okay that's crazy
Wow but that doesn't make any sense
that's just your bones no well the 15
percent so stick a couple pounds on
their fat alright so I learn how it
works yours is like $100 less than mine
and oh wow
the scale this guy yeah I find it
interesting to the learning before like
I'm gonna look at my behind 54.5% water
like that shows me that so anyways
that's enough about this guy here you
get the gist of it it's I'm not talking
about losing weight I'm talking about
the technology that I am kind of
inadvertently talking about losing
weight cuz that's my end game but the
technology that's gonna help me to do
that to stay healthy well your show like
a graph yeah it does yeah more than one
graph it shows like so I can click on
BMI and it will show me the graph for
BMI it will weight and it will show me
the graph for weight yeah same kind of
deal out same deal here's the question I
have yes why do you feel the little
electrical pulse well I imagine is that
explained well these these electrodes so
two of them touch your your left foot
two of them touch your right foot right
but you said you felt like that doctor
Hall has sensors right like electrical
in a sends an electrical actually
sending an electrical pulse I imagine so
it has to it doesn't hurt that's exactly
what I'm thinking right pregnant or
pacemaker don't don't use this okay
interesting
children shouldn't use this all right so
quickly it syncs with Samsung health
apple health Fitbit and google fit app
and it was again super easy to set up
and pair with with the with my phone and
and that was really really breezy and I
think that pretty much you know covers
everything that that we need to talk
about with that other than the fact that
from someone like myself who really
knows nothing about physical fitness to
an athlete this thing is for you like
it's it it has modes that you can set
for a your various athletic type and it
will it will be applicable for you so
there's one other thing that I picked up
which is going to help me by monitoring
my heart rate my my blood pressure my
sleeping patterns and things like that
and I'm gonna show you that keeping in
mind that that Plus this is still under
a hundred bucks so we're gonna take a
look in just a couple of moments time so
stick around
[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and I'm taking an approach
this week as I look at my kind of New
Year's resolution right to get healthier
to monitor my my various vitals and and
learn how to become a healthier physical
person and one of the devices that I
picked up I finally gave in mm-hmm
but on the cheap and I got myself a
fitness tracker okay okay to clarify
fitness tracker not SmartWatch correct
okay I didn't want a SmartWatch well
what makes a SmartWatch well the
difference between a fitness tracker and
a SmartWatch yes is your SmartWatch will
receive notifications for push
notifications yes notifications thank
you but be able to like potentially do
phone calls read your text messages
respond stuff like that this does that
really yeah so maybe it's a SmartWatch
maybe it's a SmartWatch they don't call
it either they could they call it well
they call it what it is blood pressure
monitor activity tracker heart rate
monitor sleep monitor okay so those are
the four main functions of this device
so it is of course a watch them so one
of the things so this is $40 at cat5 dot
TV slash tracker I wanted to get a cheap
fitness tracker because I'm just lying
I'm just learning have to shop around
okay so I'm just learning kind of how I
can monitor my own vitals and and get
healthier by motivating myself and
challenging myself by knowing grounders
right so this is just a cheap fitness
tracker yeah obviously and I didn't want
to go all the way to say a Fitbit or one
of the the fancier devices because what
if it doesn't work for me I can't
justify that and again I'm looking at
doing this entire process with under a
hundred dollars spent right so for 40
bucks I got this it is Bluetooth is
paired to my phone and it has a like an
analogue looking claw
on it which I like it's got my heart
rate and everything else I can change my
mode it's gonna monitor my sleep
patterns and again it's gonna graph
everything so that I can see how am i
sleeping right how am i how's my heart
rate I noticed when I was having some
technical difficulties before the show I
was at 120 BPM that makes that right now
I'm talking a lot not breathing a lot so
I'm at 90 no that's not right 72 72 am I
making you nervous but this is pretty
neat so so the goal with this is to be
able to track my heart rate my blood
pressure that's really it and the sleep
pattern thing is cool there's another
thing that I really really like about
this one and and a lot of them will have
this is that it has a vibrating alarm
yeah so I can set it on my phone the
time that I want my alarm to go off and
it will go off on this as a vibrating
function yeah so I don't wake up other
people in the house see yours is super
fancy how much did you pay this isn't
three this is young yeah I'm sitting at
103 it's like clearly I'm stressed out
that looks gorgeous yeah 300 for this
dinner this is the new Samsung active -
beautiful
okay so 40 so I but I'm very very
entry-level it's not fancy it doesn't
look beautiful it looks like a like an
early model Fitbit to me yes and yeah it
looks like it has all the features that
I would expect from a fitness tracker
and of course being bluetooth it's it's
graphing everything and it's monitoring
everything for me so that I can graph it
and see those patterns so again by
seeing patterns just like this smart
scale that I picked up by seeing those
patterns I'm able to plan out how can I
improve things right if I'm only you
know getting so many hours of sleep this
will tell me that I need an extra hour
of sleep each night so then I can plan
around that make sense yeah another
thing that it does that I really really
love we looked at ulla long ago but I've
since lost my and and I am really bad
for this I'm always drinking black
coffee and always forgetting to drink
water yeah
I try to throughout the day but this
will actually notify me anytime I should
be drinking a sip of water so it's gonna
help me to keep hydrated as well which
is gonna help me to metabolize and lose
weight right it also there I learned a
new word to me that perfectly describes
me and that is sedentary oh yes because
you sit around I sit around all day long
you're not not like a lazy boy but like
desk
I'm at my desk for 910 hours a day yes
my job actually has been ink like it's
changed to Morris said I can't settle in
Terry I imagine that's how you pronounce
it right I think so now I'm slowly and
methodically helping people which is
mirth cool less active so I mentioned
that I learned that word because one of
the features of this fitness tracker is
a sedentary alarm oh what the heck is
that so I searched for it
and it turns out if I've been sitting
still for too long it'll let me know oh
so it's just a quick notification hey
get up walk upstairs go grab yourself
another coffee you know just get up on
your feet for a few minutes right and
and that's again gonna help me to get
more physical activity in my day keep it
so that I'm not like becoming a
vegetable through the day and then
eating my dinner and you know then just
never actually burning anything I guess
but certainly sounds like a good thing
to be standing up every now and again
yep now we're back at the standing
studio that is part of it yeah yeah it
syncs with pairs with an iOS or Android
device we're asking about like does it
have the SmartWatch capabilities it does
get push notifications I saw I set up
Twitter and saw a couple of
notifications come in I saw Gmail a
couple different apps the one that I
didn't see in the app to be able to push
to push to the to the watch is discord
which was kind of disappointing because
that's really my main communication
through
but on my small screen though to people
you have read emails okay or texts so
what I do is I go to the text mode and
then I just hold in long hold okay and I
can see it like that and so then I tap
for the next screen and I got a tweet
okay from from mrs. Marsh man so that's
actually showing on my Smart Watch okay
Smart Watch fitness tracker yeah so you
you call that a Smart Watch you can
answer your calls just by tapping your
phone it'll show you the call to my
condo or does it know it connects to
your phone yes yeah it's a controller
but it'll show me the caller ID on my
wrist it'll it'll buzz so if I'm gonna
meeting it'll buzz like vibration and I
can look at it and it will show me who's
calling and then I can tap it to answer
right well so far it only arrived today
with mine yes because you want to wear
it while you're sleeping so you can't
charge it overnight just charge it when
you're in the shower that's what I do
yeah
makes sense don't wear it in the shower
they this is waterproof they call it but
they say don't submerge it in hot water
like it's fine if you're in the rain or
getting your hands wet or if you're in
the bath and not submerging it it is
waterproof to a certain depth but you're
not supposed to dive with it that kind
of soap so I would just keep it out of
the water for the most part and there's
no charger for it it just you just
unhook the case or the strap and it
plugs directly into a USB port wonderful
so there's no like port or anything to
charge it any other facts about this I
mean that's really it I did find though
if you do purchase this same one at camp
five TV slash tracker the instruction
set has you scan a QR code to get the
app and when you do that it downloads an
apk for a Chinese version of the app oh
so I'm like what how am I supposed to do
this and I couldn't find out I change
the language but it is in the Play Store
so forget about the instruction manual
just grab the app called hero band 2 and
it's spelt hero band 1 RI I all one word
no spaces in that and that's in Google
Play I'm using Android I assume it's
going to be the same app name
so will that see what to a health app
like a google fit or I mean yeah it has
its own app okay and so this is where
the I cuz I wanted to ask you guys the
question why is it worth 300 bucks other
than it's gorgeous like mine looks like
a cheap watch
but I wanted to ask that question but
one one answer already came to me yes in
that the app for this yep we'll use data
from that correct the app from this will
not use data from this correct so the
cheap watch doesn't pair doesn't
synchronize data between various devices
and I can tell you on my the the one the
one thing that would keep me from buying
that watch is that you can't really
connect with community because I mean
motivation of competition you can create
teams and things like that my friends it
would be people only with that watch
yeah perhaps yeah so Fitbit is a bigger
community yeah so if you're looking to
be competitive you know how many steps
did you get you know that way now I'm
just going to trust you I can't right I
see so yeah so like when you look at
mine like it has I can see it this is
gorgeous like it has a bezel around the
Sun it's uh it looks puzzles yeah I can
move with my finger so it's little
features like that I mean it's obviously
a bigger screen apps yeah like I can go
through my contacts list I can add
specific can i I'm gonna use my phone to
show those at home what it is that
you're actually showing me here yeah so
let me just turn so you're not getting
the yeah there we go there you go so
like you know that'll give me some of my
health stats I'm gonna rotate through
there's different apps yeah I can add
certain activities yeah on the fly be
per minute checks the weather yep
so like there's so much more different I
can set specific alarms so for 300 bucks
you've got that is a true smart walk
later music for air I could do phone
calls three okay yeah sure that's the
real even like with the sleep you can
see here yeah like it'll tell you how
long your sleep how Baldy all the kind
of stuff
I could set night mode different things
I could do phone calls from this yeah so
that I don't actually have to pick up oh
okay you talking to your watch that
Maxwell Smart yeah nice so it's you know
you could do a lot more with this yeah
okay all right so mine by contrast and I
do want to show you the screen so that
you can see that it's kind of nice
yet is color you're gonna hold the phone
sure do you mind sure thank you sir
so when I'm talking about this I'm just
there you go
so I've got my steps calories calories
how many miles I've walked beats per
minute right now
so here the screens not bad different
modes you got different themes that you
can use so if I hold long press and I
can change the theme okay so it's pretty
basic but I like that yep
yeah so but it does the tracking that
sensors on the back that are gonna help
me to be able to track those things
right now I will say the one thing that
will set my watch apart from yours hmm
EKG be like the actual beats like your
heartbeat are you graph yeah which for
me is somebody who has angina it's a big
deal because whenever I have those like
fake heart attack symptoms mm you can't
track that like if you out of heart if
you have a heart attack there's markers
that show up after the fact angina
doesn't and so what I like about this is
with the EKG sensor that's something
that will pop up on the fly so it's like
yep you're having one of those it's like
okay okay it makes sense so mine has
something called a PPK a PPG what's that
no clue an ECG measures the electrical
activity of the heart using multiple
electrical sensors by contrast a PPG is
an optical measurement of arterial
volume which uses a single light based
sensor okay so it shows my beats in a
bar graph or in a graph
but yeah it's not like beat beat beat
beat beat beat it's nothing like that
it's showing it's like a graph of how
many beats per minute when it logs at
every five seconds it looks like okay so
cool yeah a little bit years is
obviously more sophisticated and you pay
for it well exactly I was 300 bucks
yeah boxing day versus oh it was a steal
yeah Wow nice mine was a steal it was 40
bucks
can we talk about just just briefly I
know I've talked way too long yeah it's
all about you
we'll talk briefly can we talk about how
you're using technology to improve like
yes I can't imagine you improving your
mood but the device that you wanted to
show us today
is a mood enhancer let me just first say
that this is a failed Christmas gift in
that is a gift that I bought for Dave oh
it's one of those like the times when I
buy back of the things that I want
I didn't buy bought it for Dave okay
Dave doesn't sleep well at night and so
I wanted something that would regulate
his sleep pack stop kickin him when
you're sleeping changes circadian rhythm
right and and that can be done by
exposure to light right yeah and so I
mean I say yeah like I know I'm gonna
show it to you I'm gonna blind okay so
this is called a happy life this is a
full spectrum therapy light from cat
five dot TV slash happy light break
well I break everything if I turn this
off this well I mean it's super bright
let's try it would say turn it over
first no turn it toward the camera I
think people really need to see okay
just turn down the brightness on your TV
go let's stop it's not bad because our
camera will compensate for it but that
is not the Sun it is the Sun without UV
yes so it's the same brightness as the
Sun right it's it generates like a faux
Sun light like the it mimics the
the good qualities of sunlight right so
the I guess it makes you ridden think
about what the Sun does to your mood
that is what this is to do cheer mood
right first thing in the morning now I
wake up and I sit in front of that light
for 20 minutes
oh well and now I'm not a doctor this is
it could be a placebo effect so they've
only been using it have your eyes open
yeah but it's not pointed at your eyes I
have been sleeping better so I I have a
sleep tracker and I've been sleeping
better with this we'll see that's
interesting so you use a sleep tracker
on your yes so you can actually
legitimately say yes this is having a
good impact exactly so I use that from
5:00 to 5:20 a.m. hmm
but I'm sleeping literally right so it's
affecting my whole day now I found that
I'm a happy person already but I found a
couple of times and it wasn't ongoing
but a couple of times I'd like a little
spurt of like I felt like lifted right
like I just and I think that it has
something to do with the way you feel on
us on a sunny summer day or I mean right
today right you have that little extra
month it's supposed to be yeah a mood
enhancer it's supposed to limit your
cravings to carbohydrates it's really
helped I need that it's supposed to help
you change your circadian rhythm so I
leave e8 jetlag if you're a traveler
that's interesting it would help against
you know that all of the complaints
about daylight savings time hmm that
would help right and all you need to do
it's very small right it looks like a
tablet because and I was looking I was
wondering if it like how many volts it
was it is like a barrel plug yep so it's
not it's nineteen point two volts 0.65
amps that's the device itself the input
power and it's just a button to turn it
on yeah
Oh what's up here Wow it hurts and
that's the problem
yeah so that's a shining head my
goodness and I love it sorry Dave
so okay you said it was failed like no
Dave looked at it and he thought this is
a great idea and then he turned it on he
said never oh okay
so so it's not that stupid they just
didn't bother trying yeah so the way
you're supposed to like the way I point
it is I point it at me but not like
directly right so I am you know on
discord first thing in the morning
that's when I check drinking my coffee
and this thing's kind of pointed at the
side of my face my eyes are open it's
not like straight on that would be mean
to my face now how bright is that like
if say you put it in your bathroom in
the morning and instead of turning on
your bathroom light you turn that on
yeah it would be bright enough that as
you're doing your morning routine
getting ready for work that would light
up your bathroom and be just enough
light its sunlight too so like 10,000
Lux at like what is it 5600 Kelvin like
awesome I feel like it would be easy to
integrate into it a daily routine okay
as long as you are willing to suffer
through the fact that when you turn it
on at first you're drawn to look at it
and oh yes right that's right you have
to teach yourself to turn it on and look
away you know I would like to point out
that they're talking about health stuff
and the word suffer just came in an
upset don't stare directly into the
light post it is CSA approved it's also
listed with ETL and it doesn't generate
blue light I mentioned also that there
is no UV so I guess that means like it's
better for your skin yeah it's better
for your eyes then a natural sunlight
you're not gonna have to worry about
skin cancer or sunburn presumably those
kinds of things right so and it just the
benefits it has helped me so that is
interesting that's cool cat5 TV slash
happy light keep us posted on that I'd
love to to learn more about that a
school perfect I used to use a Sun
tanning booth when I was young and I
remember the the effects the benefits of
that and feeling like great after you're
done and once my skin started boiling
you realize this is not for me so that's
good I feel like this you know being a
health episode it's like I could've been
like attack I'm out of here we're
talking about the tech well I know it's
the tech but it's like tech to make you
healthy and I'm like here's no tech to
educate us to be honest the all of the
other tack that I gifted to Dave at
Christmas with stuff that we have
already reviewed on the show oh yeah
that was the only thing that was it like
independent thought it's sweet sweet
cool all right we ready to head over to
the newsroom yes here's what's coming up
in the category 5 TV newsroom a us
convenience store and gas station chain
had malware that stole customer payments
info for more than half of 2019 if you
live in the u.s. stick around you may be
effective a brain implant has been
invented that can read people's minds
and turn their thoughts to speech
Amazon's ring devices were a privacy
nightmare in the 2019 now the company
wants to improve its image by giving
users control over their security the
company that brought us the impossible
burger is now doing a plant-based pork
substitute as well and Google is adding
new privacy and scheduling features to
their virtual assistant stick around the
full details are coming up later in the
show this is the category
TV news covering the week stop texting
with a slight linux bias
I'm
sure Rickman joined this week by Jack
Weston and Robbie Griffith some quick
honourable mentions this week CES may be
flooded with new tech coming out soon
but it's also a great place for
companies to show off things that
they're working on that may not be
coming out to the public Dells doing
just that with its Alienware gaming
family showing off a new concept device
dubbed concept UFO it's a handheld
gaming console that looks similar to a
Nintendo switch but it's built for
full-fledged portable PC gaming the
handheld gaming console sports an 8 inch
display and removable controllers on
both ends sound familiar
due to the inclusion of such a large
display concept UFO is in fact
noticeably larger than a Nintendo switch
and it feels bulkier from what I've been
told the working model arse journalist
Valentina Palladino got to look at ran
Windows and was able to render playable
games in handheld mode docked mode in
which a console was connected to an
external display and it's controllers
were detached and another portable mode
in which the controllers were detached
but connected by a center bridge Sony
yes Sony has even demonstrated its
electric car concept Wow they didn't
suggest that this is meant for the
public but rather it's being used as a
platform for them to demonstrate some of
their up-and-coming sensor and
entertainment tech the vision s
dashboard is flanked by an ultra wide
panoramic screen for driving information
and entertainment combined among the
internal features of the car is sensing
technology that can detect occupants of
the vehicle and even recognize them in
order to allow for gesture control of
the entertainment systems in total Sony
has included 33 sensors in the vision s
prototype the Japanese firm is known to
have developed portable image sensors
that can be used to analyze the road in
front of the vehicle as well
more from Sony it's all about Sony right
now but they're expected the PS 5 is
shaping the future of gaming but also
the next-generation console is inspiring
their home cinema devices as well with
Sony's newest TVs they're made
specifically with the PS 5 in mind
including its 8k resolution the flagship
z8h can that's my Canadian pronunciation
is it the z8h will say well stick with
Zed Zed 8h can play at both 8k and 4k
with a full array LED and a built-in
audio system that outputs sound based on
the location of the images on screen
it's also an 85 inch screen huge whoa
there are some more mid-ranged LCD
models in the lineup as well with five
different sizes available and able to
support 120 Hertz 4k let's get into the
top stories were following this week us
convenience store Wawa
recently discovered malware that skimmed
customers payment card data at just
about all of its 850 stores the
infection began rolling out to the
stores payment processing systems on
March 4th of last year and wasn't
discovered until December the 10th it
took two more days for malware to be
fully contained most locations
point-of-sale systems were affected by
April 22nd 2019 although some locations
may not have been affected at all the
malware collected payment card numbers
expiration dates and cardholder names
from payment cards used at Wawa in-store
payment terminals and fuel dispensers
the advisory didn't say how many
customers or cards were affected the
malware didn't access debit card pins
credit card cvv2 numbers or driver
license data used to verify age
restricted purchases information
processed by in-store ATM so it was also
not affected the company has hired an
outside forensic firm to investigate the
infection people who have used payment
cards at Wawa locations
pay close attention to billing
statements over the past eight months
it's always a good idea to regularly
review credit report as well Wawa's said
it will provide one year of identity
theft protection and credit monitoring
from credit reporting service Experian
at no charge hmm you get gas now you got
to go through that yeah I can't believe
that it was active for so long before
they actually I realize perhaps one year
is not long enough just saying wha wha
that's unfortunate though it is sad and
I mean when you're traveling you don't
think is my information safely my dad
always said go to the same gas station
all of the time that way you know if
there's a problem you know where it came
from that's smart
yeah yeah it doesn't work if you travel
though no there's nothing break in that
case scientists have developed a brain
implant that can read people's minds and
turn their thoughts into speech the team
at the University of California San
Francisco says their findings published
in the journal Nature could help people
when disease robs them of their ability
to talk experts said the findings were
compelling and offered hope of restoring
speech the mind-reading technology will
works in two stages first an electrode
is implanted in the brain to pick up the
electrical signals that maneuver the
lips tongue voice box and jaw then
powerful computing is used to simulate
how the movements in the mouth and
throat would be would form different
sounds
this results in synthesized speech
coming out of a virtual vocal tract
instead of scouring the brain for the
pattern of electrical signals that code
each word the focus is on the shape of
the mouth and the sounds it would
produce Professor Edward Chang one of
the researchers said quote for the first
time this study demonstrated that we can
generate an entire spoken sentences
based on an individual's brain activity
and quote the technology is not perfect
yet but shows incredible promise here
let's listen to an actual recording of
the system
reading its users brainwaves and saying
quote the proof you are seeking is not
available in books the present you're
seeing is sign the livonian moves as you
can hear it's not quite perfect but keep
in mind that was generated by reading
someone's brainwaves in experiments with
five people who read hundreds of
sentences in their heads listeners were
able to discern what was being spoken up
to 70% of the time beyond helping
restore speech there is also the more
distant prospect of helping people who
have never spoken to learn to speak with
such a device an example might be a
child with cerebral palsy
professor Sophie Scott from the
University College London said quote
this is very interesting work from a
great lab but it must be noted that it
is at the very early stages and is not
close to clinical applications yet well
you can say that but that is incredible
so like why didn't they think of this
before because it's like my approach to
weight loss this year is like I'm not
trying to lose weight no I'm trying to
learn how how my body reacts to certain
things so similarily they're learning
the the movement of the mouth like the
same way like I think about like false
limbs like robotic limbs they use nerves
to actually control the hand and
everything so this is like that but
moving of false mouth in a way to make
the sounds the interesting thing about
this though is the fact that it's using
the brain signals that would go to the
mouth and voice box implies that you
have to have already been able to speak
right that's why they're saying
eventually right so I think it would be
hard to train somebody who's never
spoken and maybe that's it yeah exactly
so like I'm sitting there thinking you
know you might have like a nonverbal
autistic child yes you wouldn't be able
to use this not the way that's not
necessarily true though because we don't
and and there are cases certainly where
it's not going to be applicable and
another case would be somebody who
stopped speaking because of say brain
brain damage that has a
their ability to generate those signals
so but what if the signal cutoff is
somewhere between the brain and the
mouth and the vocal cords what if like I
you're talking about the a child who
can't speak well sometimes you'll see
them moving their mouth but there's no
sound coming out and so there are cases
where maybe maybe the brain is sending
the signal but maybe it's not being
interpreted correctly or maybe there's a
nerve that's not functioning correctly
who knows right but this is a case where
it's not gonna work for it's not a
cure-all for everyone right
but with 70 percent accuracy this well
here's the thing this is the starting
point the starting point is 70% I can't
even believe they're here I know it'll
be interesting to see how this plays
into things like end-of-life care and
legal rights as far as ability to take
care of themselves I mean how many
people have you seen their health
deteriorates and they end up in a
position where they can no longer
communicate but maybe muscular right but
maybe in their head they still have the
ability to process those thoughts in is
like ALS exactly yes a stroke yeah
totally great so cool exciting we have
got to take a quick break more of this
week's top tech stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
welcome back with criticism mounting
Amazon's ring revealed a web dashboard
of privacy controls it hopes will slash
the number of horror stories coming from
customer
earlier this week and in time for CES
the home surveillance camera and
Internet connected doorbells specialists
made a point of unveiling an account
control panel it hopes will allow users
to better manage the access settings on
their devices and keep hackers and other
intruders out the new controls will be
available across all products ring set
in the announcement quote the control
center will initially let you see and
manage your connected mobile desktop and
tablet devices as well as third-party
services it will also enable you to opt
out of receiving video requests in areas
where a local police have joined the
neighbors app and quote this comes after
ring found itself under fire on a number
of fronts for its privacy policies and
security protections several rights
groups have raised concerns since the
cameras provide officers excessive
levels of surveillance power in short
ring encourages its customers to share
their web-connected camera footage with
neighbors and the police opening up a
whole can of worms so regarding privacy
and consent while it's clear there are
privacy concerns over cheap surveillance
devices being installed in people's
homes hopefully the move to a user
control dashboard will help improve
security definitely it's interesting
isn't it how these smart devices
originally when they first started
coming out we're taking away the
security control from the user so we
were all having to make the assumption
that our devices were secure now as
we're learning no it's actually there is
actually problems now they're saying
okay we're gonna create interfaces for
you to be able to control that security
and they're adding features and and you
know there you can say okay smart
devices and connected devices are a bad
thing well they're probably not they're
just young and I think we do have to
give some grace to the companies that
are manufacturing them because they are
they're learning from their mistakes and
I think they're they're proving the two
that they're making changes based on
those mistakes I heard one argument that
well it doesn't in for
two-factor authentication by default and
I thought wow what today it doesn't
force two-factor authentication and I
set up a bank account with my bank this
week and they gave me online banking and
they didn't enforce two-factor
authentication talked into it right but
the bank didn't do it so yeah we're
being really hard on a new platform
that's for the very same thing that the
bank here in Canada like I'm not talking
TD Canada Trust yeah like a big bank
they don't enforce either right so so we
got to put things into context but yes I
think it's a good thing that companies
are starting to respond to their users
and I think it's kind of neat that
they're creating a capability for law
enforcement to utilize neighborhood
cameras I remember there was a car
accident
in the summer someone driving a Tesla at
top speed hit a hill and crashed it
remember that yes I do and the police
were able to tap into a surveillance
camera on a house nearby they saw the
entire accident like that's cool we
wouldn't want our privacy violated
that's the thing we have to find the
line and I think having control and
being able to say okay the the one in my
garage is mine yeah the one that's
pointed at the street you can you can
you can have access to that yeah so you
know just having a certain level of user
control is a good thing interesting you
know I was gonna go off on a tangent a
Mike nope just to stop new year new
decade oh is this is this your
resolution I like it a plant-based pork
substitute has been launched at CES by
one of the leading alternative meat
producers a food product unveiled at the
CES tech show you betcha there's some
serious tech involved in creating this
sustainable alternative to meat the new
product contains no gluten animal
hormones or antibiotics
and is designed to comply with kosher
and halal rules the firm's sausage and
plant-based pork products a similar to
ground beef substitute are made using
heme a molecule derived from plants that
contains iron and resembles blood heme
is found real meat but can be produced
without farming animals
impossible foods founder and chief
executive Patrick Brown says they're
expanding products of size of their
extended expanding product line quote we
won't stop until we eliminate the need
for our animals in the food chain and
make the global food system sustainable
and quote beyond that impossible pork
contains around half the calories of
sausage meat and is also significantly
lower in fat until recently China was
home to around half the world's farmed
pigs but millions of them have died or
been culled due to the spread of the
African swine fever a viral disease that
infects pigs and has no known cure pork
is heyou in huge demand in Asia China
alone produces and consumes more of the
meat than any other country impossible
foods say that there's that synthetic
pork product will suit a variety of
Asian dishes
that's an interesting we're we're at
that point where like I think I said on
a show years ago
won't it be neat when they can
synthesize right and there here they are
in that that tricky little spot where
they're just about to tip right over
into the mold synthesize station I can't
speak but but what's weird about it from
a technology standpoint is that it's
like meat like it's not like ground
mushrooms
held together with gluten right that's
where I have a hard time so I don't eat
meat but I don't eat meat because I
don't like meat and so I okay like so
that's different from the ethical exam
or sustainability perspective whereas
like people who want to eat healthier or
want hmm
to tread lightly I'm happy that all of
those things are happening in my life
but that's not the reason I don't eat
meat okay so once they're able to do
bacon I think that that's the point when
everybody in this whole
world is gonna be like and everyone who
says but they have vegetarian bacon but
it's not because I can tell you that
because I like the vegetarian bacon and
I don't like bacon so that means that
bacon no I do like I on the other hand
eat meat yeah yeah but but I've tasted a
lot of these alternatives yeah
have you tried the impossible burger
does anyone sell it yes plenty of places
including grocery stores and is there
any restaurant example I think then
what's the one I think the one that I've
tried is beyond burger not impossible
brats that's what I end up yours yeah
and W has them have you tried mm-hmm and
it was good but it was tougher than beef
it didn't have a nice soft like beef
tenderness it was tougher like it seemed
gluttonous to me okay so but that so I
yeah it was good but I wouldn't go out
of my way to buy it personally but if
you were a vegetarian or a vegan and
they did an alternative then that's a
reasonable alternative and I mean if in
China they're having a big pork shortage
this is it and they use full flavor
dishes right so I think that really just
member shake mimicking the texture is
probably all it's not always needed like
I mean if you have some soup and you
want to just have like a couple of meaty
chunks in it like throw in some pork
alternative whatever what I want to know
though is how did it end up at CES
because of the technology right what
Technol
I want to know more about it that I want
to know more you guys are going me know
mean I'm like at meat good bacon good
how you do that how did you exactly like
what is it about the tech that makes
this happen because Jeff they clearly
it's science there's a tech that pulls a
specific thing out of plants that
doesn't produce the same thing that
comes out of meat it like that in and
it's like they're creating synthetic
meat from plants what happen
but it's what I mean by it's different
from ground-up vegetables right together
with glue it's not like texturized
vegetable no it's like it's like me it's
like in a lot of ways like it's very
very similar that's where I they're
getting to that point I still want real
bacon it's like the petri dish that this
is not but like when we've talked about
the petri dish meat that is grown in a
dish that has never actually been an
animal yeah it totally does from a
sustainability standpoint though I do
understand that there's too much factory
farming going on I understand that yeah
and you know for Health's sake I'm gonna
like eat healthier I'm not I'm still
eating meat but I'm not eating as much
right of unhealthy stuff I just don't
cook my eggs on my bacon grease any more
healthier perfect on Tuesday all of the
new capabilities it's adding to its
voice assistant including various
additions to the way it handles privacy
one of these systems new privacy
features will allow users to delete a
record of the most recent command by
saying that wasn't for you this means
users can delete voice recordings
immediately if someone else starts with
a separate conversation in the
background or if the user decides that
what was said should not be shared users
can also ask are you saving my audio
data to learn more about their privacy
controls and to go directly to the
settings screen to change their
preferences as well as delete voices and
activity from a Google account by saying
things like quote delete everything I
said to you this week the assistant has
had a fair share of privacy concerns
with Google confirming in August that
third-party workers were
radically listening systematically
listening and linking private touch
conversations collected by the
assistance it had been revealed that
more than 1,000 files had been leaked
from these workers including recordings
of from instances where users
accidentally triggered Google's software
after the incident a google paused all
of its language for a few operations
these new privacy features come
not too long after Google decided to
revamp its assistant privacy policy last
year the changes from last year included
Google making it default for the voice
assistant to not retain audio recordings
a once a request is fulfilled meaning
that users have to opt in to let Google
keep any voice recordings made by the
device it also added a feature that
allows users to review and delete past
historical audio recordings
besides the security enhancements other
additions to the assistant announced by
Google on Tuesday include the ability to
schedule certain tasks for example users
that have a Google home integrated
washer or dryer can schedule a load of
laundry with the assistant this feature
is set to be rolled out later this year
Google has added support for various new
smart devices categories such as AC
units coffee makers vacuums and smart
bathtubs among others I would love for
my device to be able to make me good
coffee
oh and bring it to me I would like to be
able to run a bath I don't know about
the bath thing and I don't know about
the anything with water bath and laundry
I think I'm against I think it would be
cool I know that my neighbor down the
street has one of the new like washer
and dryer in one machine yep right
so if you put a load of wash in but you
know that you're gonna be home from work
at a certain time is that stuff to be
not
wrinkly just sitting there then you
could like turn one into your home scene
I'm the guy who has had pipes break and
had write things like that happened so
for me it's like I monitor things like I
check on the laundry while it's
happening right
while it's happening I don't run them
when I'm not home I super trust me yeah
my dad had it happen where the laundry
machine started spraying water all over
and they didn't know and it just
destroyed their basement so it's just
like yeah not for that but make me a
coffee yeah that beer and bring it to me
what I find interesting about this story
is that it's good yeah the stories it's
Google and they're making changes toward
users being able to control their
privacy once again right but it's
interesting that Google kind of missed
the boat on this initially I feel like
Google has kind of always been ahead of
the game when it comes to that respect
for privacy because they've kind of been
the front-runner mm-hmm
so the fact that they're trying to play
catch-up now and the fact that there was
audio breaches where conversations were
being shared I'm going Wow
Google come on yeah but I mean it's good
to see that they're making these changes
you know but it's all of us like
everybody's learning right including
Google obviously listen this is why I
don't let anyone else do anything and I
do I'm terrible at delegating yeah
because I'm afraid of someone making
mistakes and so they've hired a third
party company or maybe they had staff
that was doing this job and that staff
leaked the information yep yes that was
meant to be internal like we need to
improve our product now I have an Amazon
device at home mm-hmm
ditto so these features like that wasn't
meant for you and stuff mm-hmm
are there equivalents on the Amazon
devices I'm seeing very similar kinds of
enhancements happening okay
and you know I've talked about it before
but the Amazon echo I have mine set in
the app to make a tone any time it hears
it's activity and so sometimes you'll
hear me if if it goes off here I just
say cancel so in the middle of a
conversation somebody says that the
action word by accident and I hear do me
and I say cancel and it just now it
comes naturally so right and I wish
sometimes it will work in real life
conversations with humans I convinced
our kids that ours is now Ansel Gecko
yes you can change your what no because
oh because we chose echo yeah as the as
the name
oh but because you've got gecko I
convinced my kids to call it gecko night
oh my god change the name to geckos are
the like gecko that's cool
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for if you appreciate what we
do become a patron at patreon.com slash
newsroom from the category 5 dot TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman I'm Robbie
Ferguson and I'm Jeff Weston hey don't
forget to sign up to follow us on
Twitter yes that category 5 TV we'd love
to have you
conversing with us and following our
content there I actually maintain our
social media accounts so you'll be
chatting with me if you're talking with
a category 5 TV I also have a private
like personal the twitter account at
robbie Ferguson if you want to follow me
I do follow back on that one and that
would be really cool don't forget our
show is available on Kody and Plex and
or maybe not Plex anymore I think they
made some changes to the channels and
how that works
definitely Cody definitely Roku and
yeah get us on our website as well
category 5 dot TV but that's really I
mean we flew through I feel like I
talked all night long
and I did didn't I it's all about you
and your Wow sorry good
yeah well I'm learning to manage it Jeff
you know we're helping you burn calories
for talking that's it
yeah does that worry you should have all
been like doing squats and staff Foley
or could we do that would that be super
annoying for next week's show those
bouncy seats like the big ball way to
health doesn't work for exercise
non-animal food like I need pizza it's
the first week of January Jeff yeah wait
till next week we're probably not baking
here in the studio hey everybody thank
you so much for being here and it's
great to be back we've missed you so
much
and we're looking forward to seeing you
again next week
