here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Chinese police have arrested a fugitive
who'd been on the run for 17 years after
they used drones to spot his cave
hideout the world's most freakishly
advanced robot dog is now for sale
American entrepreneur Elon Musk has
given an update on his starship and
super heavy rocket system and an injured
tortoise who lost its shell in a fire
has become the world's first recipient
of a 3d printed shell these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 dot TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories of
the slave Linux bias
I'm Sasha Rickman and here at the top
stories for following this week Chinese
police have arrested a fugitive who had
been on the run for 17 years after they
used drones to spot his cave hideout the
63 year old had been jailed for human
trafficking but escaped from a prison
camp in 2002 he had been living in a
tiny cave cut off from human interaction
for a number of years young shang police
received clues about the man's
whereabouts in early September those
clues led them to the mountains behind
his hometown in Yunnan province in
southwest China after regular searches
fail to find anything authorities sent
additional drones to help the officers
the drones eventually spotted a blue
colored steel tile on a steep cliff as
well as traces of household garbage
nearby police then moved in on foot and
found song in a small cave where he'd
been hiding according to the police the
man had been living in seclusion for so
long that it was difficult for him to
communicate with the officers state
media said the man had used plastic
bottles to get his drinking water from a
river and branches of trees to make a
fire he has been sent back to jail it's
a real that he's disappeared for that
long and then 17 by groom it's another
use for drones I was part of search and
rescue efforts before with my drones for
air support and okay we had to look for
cows you know cows got out there the
fence Stan yeah
are expensive you know so they they
hired us and we didn't eat those cows
very but ya know it's just another great
use for this technology how long have
groans been exactly this is not
something he would have planned for in
2002 no he'd be like what what is this
what are those oh I see the poor guy but
I mean he's an escaped convict yeah
still that must have been a world of
confusion holy would have been Skinner
having a whole bunch of police think
about that if you've never seen such a
technology I don't know maybe he had
maybe he was like sneaking it to town
and and keeping up on the news I don't
know I mean and then when they say that
they were problems communicating I don't
think his base communication skills
would be a problem but think about in 17
years how general language has changed
it would be very interesting to really
get a lot more information about that
interaction hmm interesting indeed
mmm-hmm the world's most freakishly
advanced robot dog is now for sale we've
watched the spot robot Quadra Fred grow
up an evolve from its earlier earliest
days is a larger more cumbersome beast
to a carefully refined machine capable
of pulling trucks now maker Boston
Dynamics is putting the robot Robo dog
on sale the idea is not to provide a pet
friend a friendly pet that curls up in
front of the fire each evening though
spot is designed for industrial use
whether that's carrying goods through a
warehouse or inspecting a remote site
that human operators would find
difficult to get to with that in mind
you can't just put down your cash and
walk away with a spot instead Boston
Dynamics will lease the spot bought to
companies with genuine uses for it
prices vary and are on work request but
think in the tens of thousands of US
dollars a nimble robot that climbs
stairs and traverses rough terrain with
unprecedented ease yet is small enough
to use indoors is the description on the
Boston Dynamics sales page quote built
to be a rugged and customizable platform
spot
honestly accomplishes your industrial
sensing and remote operation needs end
quote for your money you get a robot
that can operate for 90 minutes between
charges with a maximum speed of 1.6 m/s
which is about 3.5 miles per hour it can
work in temperatures of between negative
20 degrees Celsius which is negative 4
degrees Fahrenheit and 45 degrees
Celsius which is 113 degrees Fahrenheit
and has a 360 degree camera vision that
enables it to avoid obstacles spot can
operate in the rain too and is able to
carry payloads of up to 14 kilograms
which is nearly 31 pounds buyers can add
viscose bespoke sensors and hardware
modules to spot to adapt it for a
variety of tasks that is so cool it has
been neat to see spots evolution now I
just want to take it back also to the
last story could you imagine if they
also use spot drones and spa oh goodness
yeah the dog climbing up the side of the
mountain is this like search and rescue
though like that's pretty cool yeah you
can go in like a disaster zone or that's
what I'm thinking like a volatile area
you could send these into to find with
360-degree vision right to find like
lost people or lost pets or whatever
they can help breeds how many pounds is
it there are 30 pounds you can hold 30
pounds of KFC 31 pounds so because
Boston Dynamics isn't selling them
they're leasing them does that mean that
they retain some of the rights to
release the information of what they're
used for because how fun would it be
then to not like to see the adventures
of spot right like maybe Boston Dynamics
Oh like has you signed a waiver saying
you must share pictures or you must
grab really like to know what spice and
that is more yeah
there's so much potential there now
we've got to take a quick break the
crypto report and more of this week's
top tech news are coming up
don't go anywhere
[Music]
[Applause]
given an update on the starship and
super heavy rocket system he plans to
use the new vehicles to send people to
the Moon and Mars and also to move them
swiftly around here
the SpaceX CEO is in the process of
building prototypes and plans to start
flying them in the coming months the mk1
version of his starship would begin
high-altitude tests in the next one to
two months he said the entrepreneur told
an audience gathered at the company's
Boca Chica Texas facility where the
prototype had been assembled quote this
is the most inspiring thing I've ever
seen this thing is going to take off fly
to 65,000 feet about 20 kilometers and
come back and land that is a giant thing
it's really going to be pretty epic to
see that thing take off and come back
and both the 50 meter tall starship will
eventually fly atop its booster the
super-heavy and both parts of the new
rocket system which together will stand
118 meters tall on the launch pad are
being designed to be fully reusable
making propulsive landings at the end of
their mission if we if we get two orbits
in about six months then and we have a
remember this is designed to be a
reusable rocket so a reasonable booster
reusable ship so we can do many flights
to prove out the reliability very
quickly so whereas with an expendable
vehicle you have to build if you want to
do ten flights let's say to prove out
the viability of an expandable vehicle
your need to build and destroy ten
vehicles whereas we can do 10 flights
you know it within basically a 10 days
so when I say rapid reusability I mean
you know what you can fly if like you
can fly the boosts or
20 times a day you fly the ship three or
four times a day that's what I mean by
reusability and the only reason their
ship it takes more time than that is
more time than the booster is that you
need a couple of you need you know three
or four orbits to synchronize for the
ship so that it is over you know like
don't get in those complicated thing of
orbital dynamics and the rotation of the
earth relative to satellite but as
anyone who's like knows the space you
know the track of a satellite unless
it's an equatorial satellite is a
sinusoidal track on the earth unless
it's equatorial or sun-synchronous so so
it it you know launching sort of due
east you have to kind of wait for the
orbits just the the the ground paths to
sync up with the launch light and that's
the only reason it really takes like you
know maybe six hours or something like
that to sync up and land back at Boca or
the Cape you know one of the really
interesting interesting things to
contemplate is the total mass to orbit
capability of a large reusable system
where you have a significant fleet in
operation the if you have you've got
something like Sasha where you've got
maybe 150 tonnes capable to orbit and
the ship can fly'
is capable of say theoretically flying
four times a day but you know they call
it like 75 percent uptime so theoretical
three times a day three or sixty-five
days a year so that's like about a
thousand flights a year for the ship the
booster can do a lot more than that this
is obviously max theoretical
and you're but you know 150 tons that
service 150 thousand tons to over per
year per ship and if you've got say ten
ships you would have a hundred and your
one and a half million tons so of it per
year twenty ships you've got three
million tons over two year I think the
total rest of world capacity if you take
all rockets on earth including Falcon
the total capacity to orbit I think is
around two to three hundred tons
currently total Earth capacity to orbit
is about two to three hundred tons if
all rockets launched at max rate so
we're talking about something that is
with with the fleet of starships a
thousand times more than all earth
capacity combined all all other rockets
combined would be 0.1% including ours
but you kind of need that if you're
going to build a city on Mars so it's
got to be done mr. musk who is well
known for his aggressive scheduling said
quote this is going to sound totally
nuts but I think we want to try to reach
orbit in less than six months provided
the rate of design and improvement and
manufacturing improvement continues to
be exponential I think that that's at
that's accurate within a few months and
quote while the scheduling often slips
eventually he does tend to deliver Wow
this is happening it's happening it's
probably not happening in six months
within a few months of six months yeah
but anyhow the fact that it's reusable
the fact you know what I love that that
yeah that speaks to me like to I don't I
don't even like using reusable water
bottles like I don't want a spaceship
the disposable ones yeah
so I just I like that it'll be able to
safely I assume land in a in a
controlled manner and be reused so
that's it and and and when you think
about what's going to be necessary in
order to this is sci-fi like it were
actually we're talking about this in
reality I'm thinking in order to to
place people on Mars or to Colin ate the
moon Aladin ow yeah there's one question
though
will there be a frequent flyer program I
know it's it's it's really exciting
I'm actually really more excited mainly
because I love Earth but I'm more
excited for the fact that travel around
Earth like teacher yeah that would be so
I'd love to visit Australia in about a
half hour exactly you know be back for
lunch you know yeah written for dinner
well you're a pilot so you kind of have
that sense because I just watching for
that little note um so like when the
airspace is closed for this I'm but I
see your flight plans though and I think
man how would have taken me six hours
and you just fly somewhere have lunch
and fly back I know it's just like yeah
we're going to Mars and that's that's
how like it's just gonna be reality yeah
I mean it's not gonna be in six hours
but yeah but that's actually yeah Wow an
injured tortoise who lost its shell in a
fire became the world's first recipient
of a 3d printed shell when it comes to
animals who are vulnerable in a forest
fire tortoises probably aren't the first
to come to mind however they've been
among the many victims of a fire in
Brazil one of the Turtles who was
injured in the brush fires was in
desperate need of medical attention they
called him Freddie he was badly burned
and his shell was actually destroyed
from the fire Turtles depend on their
shells so Freddie not having his was a
big problem a group of vets
veterinarians a dental surgeon and a
designer had only recently formed a
group called the animal Avengers that
help animals who have been struck by
tragedy Freddie was their first patient
and has been saved
through the innovative use of technology
Freddie now lives at the home of one of
the veterinarians who helped with the
prosthetic it's so neat
I actually really picture that as they
save more and more animals they're just
gonna adopt them as they save for them
this veterinarian and the dental surgeon
and everybody they're just all gonna
have this random like I love it when
tech comes into play to like save
animals and the absolutely anytime like
I love tech stories where like our our
human life is helped or improved and to
think that they're doing things for
animals as well and that's so super cool
we've got to take a real quick look at
the crypto report if we may just to get
a look at where things stand on the
crypto currency market as of 1800 hours
Eastern Time on Wednesday October 2nd
2019 Bitcoin dropped about three hundred
sixty two dollars us over the past week
very volatile and we're not really sure
where it's going it's down at eight
thousand two hundred and sixty one
dollars and fifty four cents US this
week Facebook Libre still not not
trading super steady yep at zero
litecoin is holding fairly steady it's
down a little bit at fifty five sixty
eight US aetherium is at one hundred and
seventy seven dollars and 53 cents u.s.
Manero is losing a little bit of fifty
five eighty two and the two that are
holding real steady are the ones that
are it looks like the Micro coin market
is just holding where it is it's not
really fluctuating at the like at the
satoshi level at all we're looking ATS
Scalla this week again at zero point
three three ten thousands of a cent and
turtle coin at zero point two four
remember if you're going to invest or
have any involvement in the
cryptocurrency market it's always open
and it's always volatile it's 24/7 so
things could flip on their heads
overnight and through the night so when
you invest make sure that you invest on
what you can afford to lose big thanks
to rory W Nash in our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson
interview bro
