covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias remote-control drones will be
used to deliver coronavirus testing kits
to a remote Scottish hospital and
they're being flown outside of the
operators direct line-of-sight backed by
the local NHS trust drone firm Sky ports
will fly drones between the Isle of Mull
and Oban the closest town on the
Scottish mainland we've reported on
similar in recent trial programs and it
seems it's working as more communities
begin tapping into the unmatched
capabilities of UAVs Sky ports chief
exec Duncan Walker speaks about their
recent trial in the Scottish area of
Argyll and Bute saying it provides an
important short-term response to the
current pandemic and lays the
foundations from which to grow a
permanent drone delivery operation
across the network of health care
facilities around the country his
company will fly unmanned delivery
drones made by German company wing
copter the craft will fly the 17
kilometres between Lauren and Isles
hospital in open and I own a community
hospital in Craig nur while 17
kilometres doesn't sound like a long
distance as the crow flies it's a
lengthy arduous journey by Road and
ferry
by contrast sky port says it will take
just 15 minutes by drone the trial will
take place using beyond visual line of
sight rules requiring special permission
from the Civil Aviation Authority drone
flights that go beyond the operators
line-of-sight are normally prohibited
however the main perceived benefit of
aviation drones cannot be realized until
the tech is proven safe enough to be
thought to be flown without a watchful
human nearby in case of collisions the
trial will take place over the next two
weeks completing in the first week of
June
[Music]
