here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Facebook Instagram and whatsapp
experienced outages on Sunday which
brought down their systems worldwide for
over two hours now single point of
failure is being blamed and we're
looking at decentralized solutions like
Bitcoin for an answer
Microsoft has admitted that it's
outlook.com security breach was worse
than the company initially revealed Sony
has finally released the details about
its upcoming PlayStation 5 console and
we've got a sneak peek of the Nintendo
theme park opening next year and yes it
has real-life Mario Kart these Suri's
are coming right up don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 dot TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight linux bias Jeff Weston
Yellin you're building a brand new
beautiful website
what are you you're a terrible actor
what the swear acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host I'm Satya Rickman and here
the top stories were following this week
Bitcoin for an answer part of the
problem with many of the online services
we use today is that they run on
centralized servers technology giants
are stockpiling data on our activity in
massive warehouses without without
colossal servers all of our online
services and websites today wouldn't be
able to run it's no surprise then that
they so often can fall victim to outages
once a centralized server fails the
entire system fails until it is properly
repaired in the case of Facebook an
outage also means downtime for both
Instagram and whatsapp users it's a
serious liability that a single point of
failure could potentially shut down
three of the most used social media
services decentralization has the
adverse effect of of always being
available as a twitter user at ramp
Capital LLC humorously tweeted Bitcoin
never suffered a worldwide outage it's a
valid point Bitcoin has been
continuously running since it was first
released over ten years ago it's gone
through complete price collapse twice
hard Forks harsh Wars media cycles and
all kinds of inner disputes
such controversy would likely kill any
to any kind of centralized project from
the get-go yet Bitcoin has not stopped
mining blocks and has continued to run
non-stop ever since the first very first
block that's an achievement that no
centralized server can even hold a
candle to of course blockchain based
networks like Bitcoin can't handle the
complexity Facebook currently serves
however it's a real example that
decentralized systems are self
regulating itself functioning that's
because there's simply no single point
of failure that fact that the Bitcoin
can stay resilient for over a decade
without experiencing a single outage is
a testament that decentralization works
that's so true mm-hmm I think about like
how I'm using BitTorrent yep in order to
decentralize the downloads of NEMS Linux
right and some folks don't quite get
that yet I'm still getting people saying
oh well I want a direct download which
is a single point of failure but if
things are on BitTorrent and and big
files like images of NEMS Linux for
example you you're it doesn't matter if
my servers down it doesn't matter if
such-and-such servers are down because
there's 30 of them and it's
decentralized and it'll just grab from
whatever one it's available on and if
the internet could also similarily take
that approach mm-hmm
it's difficult because the technology
maybe isn't quite there yet I mean we've
got content distribution networks is
probably the closest I can come up with
to that like being able to have your
content on many different cloud servers
okay and then serving up from whichever
one is available that's that's kind of
close but I'd assume that since this
outage Facebook is gonna change its ways
because I think being down for two hours
with you know Instagram whatsapp
Facebook that's it yeah right like
that's a lot of unhappy Millennials it's
tough to when a company builds itself up
to the point where it owns all those and
and okay we're gonna put it on our
infrastructure so now we own Instagram
so let's put it on our Facebook
infrastructure well then what happens
right right and
truth of the matter is I mean they're
also service that has branded itself to
like be addictive like it's made itself
so that people want to be checking it
all the time some things you could go
two hours without checking when I was on
Facebook that was least like me I I was
on it all the time
so two hours yeah and certain services
like you think about Google for example
well Google oh man if it went down for
two well they're provisioning basically
that they are to a lot of novice
Internet users who don't quite
understand how URLs work Google is the
internet internet essentially and that's
to a non savvy computer user but also a
lot of businesses are using them for
email when outlook.com went down guess
what
loads of businesses were affected yeah
and not just outlook like you're looking
like not just email but also calendaring
shared files things like that all of a
sudden be becoming unavailable so single
point of failures are a really big
catastrophic issue for business mm-hmm I
think where it's tough I mean we're
we're dealing this week with a customer
server who again on site has a single
point of failure they've got their file
server and the file servers motherboard
died right okay so now we have no access
to our file sharing
but that's on site so we know okay well
it's on the hard drives the data is
there we can get up and running we can
move the data on to other servers and
actually have access to it or we can
restore it to another file sharing
server and then be able to access it but
when it's in the cloud it's just oh it
was up one moment and now it's not right
where's my data where is that how can i
how can i stop gap to the point where
okay so that motherboard in the in the
main server needs to be replaced well
okay well we can pull a drive and we can
plug it into another computer and boot
it up and share those files to you well
that's great that's a stopgap but
where's the stopgap when it comes to a
cloud-based service where if it's down
it's just down you have no access to it
you can't pull a drive and move
on to another server you can't get a
hold of that cloud service company
you're and you can't yeah
you to give a call to Google mm-hmm call
up Facebook give Facebook a call and see
if you can get support yeah isn't it
don't they like not have phone numbers
listed even if you found a phone number
you're not gonna get a hold of anyone
and if you did they're not gonna be
helpful and that's a big part of the
it's a bit of a bit of it's a it's a
problem yeah that the biggest companies
that rule our world with all these
technologies cannot be gotten ahold of
right if the services are down so say
email how would you then get ahold of
someone who only has email has email
well I mean you think about when we've
had power outages because of weather and
stuff and my cell towers are down I mean
how and I realize that's a localized
issue to that cell tower but you have no
cell signal there are people who use
data on their phones and most people
have gotten away from in some cases
computers at home and they're doing
everything on their tablets and all that
now yeah so it's like if all that
disappears how do you reach anybody yeah
you know and we've kind of got to this
point society where you know it's like
the lights would go out and people used
to walk across the roads like hey your
lights are always everything okay now
it's like yeah yeah you know and then
they said they're freaked out we're very
dependent as well and I think maybe
that's what has to shift maybe our
dependency has to shift a little bit and
that if things were offline could we
continue operating or at least be
sensitive enough to the fact that it's
offline yeah
here in Canada when the power was out Oh
for what 48 hours yes
years ago it was years here in Canada it
affected the country practically all of
Ontario which is a mass on the east side
I think because I had to do it that was
the big transformer explosion in New
York or something yeah and like the
whole domino just gone all I know is I
couldn't shop at Walmart
nice of a scroll I think it was I think
there's a squirrel when that kind of
stuff happens it's like okay we can
either choose to come together and work
together right and come up with
solutions or we can freak out exactly
really and and let's not freak out let's
let's work together and and and I think
you know I see that when when servers go
down and stuff and customers are our
patient and okay we understand that this
is something that needs to be worked
through so let's be those people that
you know okay well I understand this is
going to take time
all right let's let people do their jobs
and and I think that's gonna maybe make
things a little easier to cope with
probably most of the people needed a
two-hour break from Facebook anyway like
most food pics yeah Twitter that's true
Twitter's not owned by Facebook yet yet
see I did that Microsoft has admitted
that it's outlook.com security breach
was worse than the company initially
revealed the software makers started
notifying some outlook.com users late on
Friday night that a hacker was able to
access accounts four months earlier this
year Microsoft's notification revealed
that the hacker could have viewed
accounts email addresses folder names
and subject lines of emails but in a
separate notification to other affected
users the company also admitted email
contents could have been viewed
Microsoft's discovered that a support
agents credentials were compromised for
its webmail service allowing
unauthorized access to some accounts
between January 1st and March 28 2019
motherboard claims the accounts could
have been used by the hackers to reset
iCloud accounts linked to stolen I
phones so far Microsoft is refusing to
reveal how many accounts were affected
another hack attack I feel like
this is every week it's like okay like
oh that's shocking unbelievable now
that's believable that happens all the
time
here's the thing now so it's saying that
people are being notified if they've
been affected just assume if you have
outlook.com that you've probably been
affected and then just that make that
assumption also make the assumption if
you have any email anywhere that
probably at some point you too will be
affected so make sure that you remember
that sensitive information shouldn't go
in emails but yet it does your contacts
right yeah we just had a conversation
about how the world seems to revolve
around social media and all these
services that you know big business owns
and then it's like oh so don't put
sensitive him where do you put it
carrier pigeons right like why yes Jeff
you know do we go back to the Espionage
days of like a little chalk mark on a
fire hydrant and exactly look at that
how do you say Traveler mm yeah instant
technology you know the sad thing about
this story is from a company the size of
Microsoft you would think that's it that
they would a have noticed this earlier
and be fast that will be a little bit
more open about how many people were
impacted your approach though Jeff is
like you would think that Microsoft
would do better well that's the problem
we all think Microsoft will do better so
Facebook will do better no because of
the size of the company no it just makes
them a bigger target just yeah assume
the worst and be pleasantly surprised
when you're wrong no likes protect
yourself and as you know and make sure
you check to see whether or not any of
these breaches have been made have I
been owned calm and it's a great service
that will help you to see I mean but how
do you like verification dot IO mm-hmm
how many of us had information in this
database that we didn't even subscribe
to we didn't even know we were a part of
well
mm-hmm we're there see three people from
my own office and we're small off
we're on the verification i/o exploit
Wow and you probably were too I mean
it's huge yeah
see what i like it like i have i
subscribed to a password keeper software
okay right which one do you use if I may
ask because that's a hot topic I use
that right now I use - lame I buy the
premium subscription for a year and one
of the things I like about it is that
they for I pay for - I pay for it
and one of the things I do like is it
has dark web monitoring and so I
regularly can go in and see if any of my
information has been found on the dark
web okay
any breach in Internet can tell me
what's been stolen nice where it's all
part of your password it's all part of
my password manager tells me where was
stolen from and when it was stolen I
just got an alert the other day that one
of my email accounts had popped up on a
dark web breach from three years ago and
it was finally accessed in February do
you know why I love that in your
password manager is it immediately
prompts you to change your password yes
look at that Dropbox was exploited and
my password from ten years ago when I
used to use robbed box was exploited go
and change it yes yes that's great and I
like that and it also interacts to go
okay you have this service that was
hacked at this point and that email
address is used for this other one
that's been hacked you want to make sure
like we've checked and your passwords
are similar they're not the same but
they're similar maybe they have the
hashes of the past you want what they do
that well well because it's the password
keeper so it stores it within there so I
mean if I use like one two three four
five says it actually do that though
does it tell you if your password is
similar on other sites it has it has
told me this is a similar password you
want to change it so that they're not
close mm-hmm you just use the password
generator then I can use a password
generator I I do use it sometimes
sometimes I have a system I have to
explore this service but the reason that
I don't like what you're saying right
now yeah is because if they know that
the password is similar then they know
what my password
any password manager should not know
what my password is but yes I don't know
how the system works but I do know a
Shazz hashes are fine sure take a take a
hash like encrypted password and compare
it to another one and be able to tell if
it's identical right but if it's similar
like if I say maybe once maybe it is
that it's the same I thought it was that
it was similar maybe it is that it's the
same let me give you the the what I'm
what I mean okay just so it's clear so
password 1 2 3
yep versus password 1 2 3 4 if I if I
know what those passwords are I can
compare them and say oh those are really
close right now if I instead have the
hashes the encrypted versions of those
they're gonna be completely different
right because they're 256 bit AES
scripted they are not at all similar
because they're binary data is
completely different right there is no
connection between them and it will
never be able to tell that if it could
tell if that two passwords are exact
because the hashes the the maybe that a
check sums will be the same maybe that's
what it was then okay thought they were
the same that I I would appreciate yeah
I do get that alert if if I was to find
out that Dropbox was exploited and I
used that example because it was and
then it said by the way you were also
using that password on this this this
and this site that's scary because I
know that now someone else has my
password but immediately from my
password managers perspective it shows
me I need to change the passwords on
those sites as well right right if I've
used the same password on multiple sites
just don't want to be clear about that
yeah I will go home and take a look and
confirm okay but you could be right on
that one because I know every once in
while i got an alert that's like oh
you're not 100% secure anymore you're
like 99% could secure because you've
used the same password right so yeah and
when I create my master password for a
password keeper you remember it when I
create the master password that becomes
part of the encryption key right so then
the password manager company themselves
cannot read they don't know what my
password
because they don't know what my what my
key is yeah that I created this my own
private key the hash so so they should
only be able to compare check sums not
password I will confirm that okay so but
what I do like about the service is its
cross-platform so if I pull something in
on my computer and now uploads to my
phone so that if I go to the site on my
phone I can add a psych - hat it's great
LastPass does some great stuff as well
that's what I use but I'm looking for
something alternative - I loved Ashley
LastPass recently updated themselves and
I hate it yeah LastPass is watching the
the latest update is garbage I had
LastPass for one of my email addresses
couldn't remember my master password
main new email address forgot that
password - and I realized LastPass is
not for me clearly I can't not remember
the password so I remember we did like
episode way way back and it was like
pass was it called password box and they
got bought out by Intel
that's who I'm tell security yeah so
you're with Intel Security's yeah what's
it called it's like a blue blue the true
key I think
kruky true key that's right that's who
I'm with because Turkey
I remember that password and they let me
in so I'm with them that's one of the
cool things about dashlane is I can set
up a somebody to take over my account
like say I end up passing away my wife
is on the account okay as somebody who
she can contact - lean to say yes he's
no longer able to access this I don't
have his master password and she's
already authorized on the account so
that then after a 48 hour check they can
transition the account to her process
dual hashing I don't know how it works
but but I do like that service because I
mean with all the like web-based
services we use nowadays it's like my
wife's like having all the passwords I'm
like I have over 150 I don't know the
passwords either but I've got the master
password and remember that though oh I
remember it definitely remember your
master password folks
sony has finally released the first
details about its upcoming PlayStation 5
console gamers have been waiting
patiently to find out any information
about ps4 s replacement but until now
details have been kept firmly under
wraps
now Sony's System Architect mark Cerny
has released information about the
next-gen console revealing it will be
much faster more powerful and include
improved audio good news for avid
PlayStation users the new console will
include a high-speed solid-state hard
drive
well that won't mean much to a lot of
people the point of the SSD is to
dramatically reduce things like loading
times which will make everyone's gaming
experience a bit better for example when
playing spider-man on ps4 it can take up
to 15 seconds to fast travel between
different locations cerny showed the
same task just taking 800 milliseconds
on the new machine another big focus for
the next-gen console is 3d audio PS 5
which isn't the official name of the new
console will see gamers being immersed
in audio from above behind and beside
and it will be best experienced through
headphones the next PlayStation supports
right supports ray-tracing
graphics the first time of game console
has ever managed graphics like it
they're usually used in Hollywood
special effects and occasionally in
high-end processors it means users of
the next-gen Playstation will receive
much better and more realistic visuals
it's also worth noting that while the PS
5 will have all of these improvements
you don't need to worry about
compatibility with ps4 games the new
console will still take physical disks
and gamers can still play PlayStation 4
games on the new console don't expect to
be able to buy one in 2019 you'll have
to wait until at least next year to see
it on shelves and we don't yet know how
much it will cost so let me get this
straight ps4 has a spinning hard drive
yes you can hear it really yes Wow
yeah see I still have my ps3 at home I
just I couldn't spend the money to
upgrade to the ps4 because then I would
lose all my access to my games Oh cuz
they weren't backwards compatible that's
right yes so yeah so they've maybe
improved that with the ps4 to PS 5 and
the ps4 ps4 pro that those are backwards
compatible too yeah so still I mean it
sounds quite follow me camera guy sounds
like it's great and I'm excited about
that
you know the high-end graphics you know
be interested what they do and it'll be
interesting to see if they pull out some
sort of like AI graphics development
well the software for some games I'm
excited for it to get even better
because we just upgraded from a ps4 to a
ps4 Pro and like the sunlight beams in
the games are just magnificent like it's
such a cool graphics upgrade just that
alone so here we are for the next one
I'm just
and I hear ya somebody unveiled last
week that they're working on a 16 K
television hosting Kay you give this
things like 17 feet wide it's bigger
than a box it requires two stories whole
stories of a building yep what could you
imagine so we need a ps5 for that your
ps3 probably won't provide the same
resolution probably not but I still like
my retropie that's true my rope i/o
draco oh I was just gonna say right go
is like a hit at my house yeah I love it
kids love it I love it Nintendo fans you
may want to update your bucket lists the
world's first Super Nintendo theme park
is set to open its doors next year the
351 million dollar venture will offer
heaps of excitement for video game fans
promising state of the art rides
interactive areas shops and restaurants
one particular highlight is sure to be
the real-life mario kart race course
where pairs of riders will sit in carts
running on a rail with one controlling
drift and the other concentrating on
power
and weapons so keep your eyes peeled for
those pesky bananas the park will open
at Universal Studios Japan in 2020 in
time for the Tokyo Olympic Games
Nintendo and Universal Studios first
unveiled the plans for the park back in
2015 but now they've revealed a sneak
peek it looks like unsurprisingly Mario
will be the star of the show as the icon
leads the charge it interacts with
visitors
the teaser doesn't give away too much
but it does suggest that the Decorah
will be very much alike something
directly out of the classic Mario games
this will be the first of three Super
Nintendo theme parks to open with plans
currently in place to open two more in
Hall in Hollywood and Orlando of course
a trip to Japan won't come cheap but if
you've already started planning for the
visit to the Olympics then you may want
to leave space on the itinerary for this
quirky day out speaking of retro gaming
Wow I think this is totally awesome why
did it take them so long
now I'm really excited for the Orlando
and Hollywood openings because that's a
little bit more accessible for me but oh
this is gonna be great
watching the videos of people there is
gonna be amazing yeah it's it's gonna be
fun I can't help but wonder though if it
may over time lose its novelty appeal
Jeff know why we're talking about retro
pie tonight I know but our Odroid go is
so that we can play games from 1990 I
get that but there you would have to be
aware of the that era of gaming to
really get the novelty of it if that
Park is around 50 years from now our
people are gonna like are my grandkids
gonna go why is this so old looking Jeff
I don't want to think about a world
where people don't know what Mario is I
know I just want to know if somebody
legitimately slips on a banana it are
they gonna get upset or are they just
gonna say this this is to make an
incredible loss
hey let's take a real quick look at coin
gecko this is what the crypto market
looked like as of 1800 hours Eastern
Time on Wednesday
what is it the 17th of April 2019
Bitcoin
everything's losing here so bitcoins
down almost 50 bucks at five thousand
two hundred and twenty two dollars and
ninety nine cents us litecoin is down to
79 74 aetherium 166 eighty-four Monero
is down to sixty eight dollars and nine
cents per coin the little guy stellite
is at one point five six ten thousandth
of a cent and turtle coin also dropping
zero point four ten thousandths of a
cent at one point six don't forget if
you are going to invest in the
cryptocurrency market it is always
volatile and never closes big thanks to
Roy W Nash in our community of viewers
who for submitting stories to us this
week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Richmond I'm Robbie
Ferguson and I'm Jeff Lester
[Music]
[Applause]
