[Music]
as usual we'll start with the market the
market hasn't changed significantly in
the total volume 270 billion it was
similar to last week but there has been
a dip in the last few days and the
market hasn't record since then although
as you can see last 24 hours
most of the coins are in in green so a
Bitcoin is now at four 9450 for us told
us and if we sought by 7 days you will
see that a few coins had some fantastic
gains I mean we've got birch with
seventy seven point five percent gain
and in total at fifteen tokens coins
that had again over fifteen percent and
if we sought by dance above negative we
only had two coins that had done Trent
don't was Trent over fifteen percent it
shows that the market is maturing and
growing as it was also last week if we
look at my favorite subject
decentralized fineness defy market this
one has grown by almost 1 billion in one
week it was last week 2.4 billion now
it's 3.3 billion the biggest one is now
compound as you remember from last week
and the previous week's with maker Dow
is the number one and that has changed
now and by significant difference it's
now compound being the number one with a
growth in 24 hours of over 40% so this
market is heating up and it's getting
more and more interesting from day to
day
now another subject is and this this is
interesting for everybody here because
you hear so many opinions on how the
market is performing it's going up it's
going down the future's going bright
it's dark and I just want to show you
one example of what has happened in the
past and it is here JP Morgan their CEO
Jamie Dimon said this was in 2000 safety
17 he said that bit
is a fraud and that everybody would fire
everybody and he said that openly and in
the forum and he would fire every but
everyone in the bank that is trading
Bitcoin in a second now interesting
enough if we look into the news from
this week we see that JP Morgan
completely surprised surprised us with a
bet bit coin flip so now they're not
supporting Bitcoin and that's the
interesting part you need to really form
your own opinion in this market don't
listen to the so-called experts because
you see JP Morgan one of the biggest
banks in the world suddenly changes the
opinion overnight and so there no real
experts you're the own expert just form
your own opinion when you follow a coin
or you want to do an investment next one
is an analysis on the on the development
of some coins
it's outlier ventures that did an
analysis and which was quite interesting
so they see that there has been a
downturn in development for around 20%
in average but some again as polka-dot
has got increased in substantial rise in
develop activity polka-dot in Cosmos 15%
in theta and Caetano increased the core
development significantly it's
interesting because they did a very
thorough analysis on on how the market
is card developing from the
technological point of view the
development and so on I will put a link
of this PDF file in in the in the in the
description next headline is you
remember China they have launched
already their cryptocurrency the fiat
cryptocurrency in our Korea is doing the
same thing they're applying this year's
everybody every country's suddenly
jumping on this strain of having a
cryptocurrency back system next one is
an analysis last week I reported about
Peter
Ceri analysis on the hedge fund industry
and here this one was done by fidelity
digital assets and they've got some
interesting findings too
so a survey of 800 institutional
investors in the US and Europe found
almost 80 percent intrigued by digital
assets with 36 percent already invested
in the market and broken down by market
it looks like Europe it seems to be more
bullish than the US because only 27
percent of the institutions of the US
institutions now that includes pension
funds family offices investment advisors
in digital and transitional hedge funds
have invested in cryptocurrencies but
this is up from 22% a year ago so it
went up by 5% it's an interesting
development I would say and it shows
that the investors in the investment
market is participating in our industry
and last but not least is and I put also
a link of that report in the in the show
notes last one is the human rights
foundation launched a Bitcoin
Development Fund and so the HRF launches
a fund to support developers who are
making the Bitcoin more private and
decentralized and resilient so that it
can be better that it can better serve
as a financial tool for human right
activists I find that also interesting
that human rights foundation is
supporting with cash developers to make
our Bitcoin a little bit more private so
that's it for me this week I hope I hope
you enjoyed it and I'm looking forward
to see you next week with some I
guarantee you fantastic news and yeah
until then I wish you great week and
thank you very much for watching thank
you Robert just a reminder that we're
not providing financial advice but
simply sharing what's happening in the
cryptocurrency market always remember
that the crypto currency markets are
ever-changing and always volatile so you
should only spend what you
or to lose
