welcome to category five technology TV
great show lined up for you why are you
playing with your phone it's not my
phone as my wife's fine and I've got an
upgrade er but the sim card won't fit
yeah and our phone so what am I gonna do
Jeff well it's a good thing that we've
got an unboxing with a product that's
gonna help you be able to change your
sim on the fly at home without having to
go to your cell phone provider will I
lose my phone number
well hopefully if you do it right you
won't cool look I do it right as well
you had a poll this week yeah we were
finding out whether Alexa is creepy or
and as well again with the GIMP
tutorials we've got another one that's
gonna help you do some white balance
when there's absolutely no white within
your picture that's impossible Jeff it's
not impossible
what it's very probable we're gonna find
that out stick her out this is category
5 technology TV
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamers tune in every week on roku
Kodi Plex and other HLS video players
for local show time soon as a category 5
TV category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB welcome to the show
everybody so great to see you thank you
for being back with us again this week I
ran a poll on Twitter this week and the
question that I asked had to do with
Amazon's echo device which is what I'll
call it I'm not going to call it by name
because I don't want to set off yours
here was my tweet with that little edit
last night my wife and I had some fun
asking Amazon echo about the fiber
content of various foods today on Amazon
I'm looking at single board computer
cases and there's an ad mixed in for a
cereal called fiber one creepy or clever
did did anybody say clever what's your
thought well it depends on how I'm
thinking I think it's clever its really
crazy it stems from I mean you're a
vegetarian so you understand that you
need to kind of watch you know where you
get your fiber where you're getting
protein yeah it's like that so we had
this kind of fun conversation with
Amazon echo saying how much fiber is in
broccoli broccoli and potatoes and all
these various things right so then the
next day like in in amongst cases like
computer cases right for my raspberry
PI's and my pine 64's and my OH droids
hey there's an ad for fiber one cereal
great creepy or cool you said creepy or
clever not cool
creepy or clever or a beer cool clever I
think it's a creepy sort of clever but
it'll cover like I think that it's too
obvious to be
be subtle like it's not subtle yeah
right it's like we work on my wife said
maybe it's just a fluke not come on no
it's too obvious it's like yeah it's
targeted advertising sure it totally
makes sense
it's it's clever I mean you are doing a
search through your assistive device
sure that is recording that information
providing information it's recording
here this is making it sound ominous
well but it is it's taking you're saying
it's using it to create a web search
learning from my use yeah and then from
there it's creating this log of what
you've searched up it's no different
than if you googled it sure it's not
without the keyboard so then the next
day you go on and hey you get it
targeted at it's no different than
looking for something on Amazon
suddenly you're seeing products pop up
in web ads on other pages it it's
totally fine Dave in our audience
creepy or clever is it creepy or clever
Amazon you think it's clever Dave
everybody here in the studio thinks this
is pretty clever in our chat so you see
over there on discord on our Titan PI
that no man 5 says how do you all creepy
it's not creepy it's advertised it's
obvious why would you think it was
creepy that's the thing what's creepy is
when you talk have a conversation with
somebody suddenly that pops up as an ad
on Facebook that's how that did not
happen
right clear I know this was a
conversation not with a person this was
not me and my wife conversing with one
another this was me and my wife
conversing with a cameras on echo a
computer a supercomputer a computer that
logs your search history at the end of a
search you make whether spoken or typed
it is a search history it's gonna be in
your database so it's totally clever
it's great so I have Spotify yes and I
spotify premium in the spotify premium
how are you understanding well they're
sending me it learns wait and they're
sending me umm what is the Google one
what is a Google home Mini yes ok what
is the Google one
she was a robot she would know that she
goes which is the Google 100 yes yes
she's gifting us one of these fantastic
today Congrats this is great Joey gives
me anything yeah so I think because they
want to know more of what I'm thinking
they don't realize I'm gonna turn it off
except when I need it to listen to me
that's what I said to Amazon's echo has
a mute button but I find like I don't
keep it in the bedroom I don't put it in
the bathroom it's in write a communal
area of the house where we can ask it
for recipe ideas and how long does it
take to cook a turkey and all those
kinds of things and how much fiber is in
my potato board computer apparently
zucchini but everybody here says it's
clever I think it's pretty clever yeah
but I think Italy you mentioned Spotify
so I that makes me think about Netflix
and how when I'm watching Netflix it
learns from my viewership what kind of
stuff I like so now when it makes
recommendations what does it say it
doesn't say you know so many people 96%
of people said this was a good show no
it says this is a 96 percent match so
now all of a sudden Netflix is telling
me you'll probably like this show that's
how we pick our shows I'm like it's 98%
like for sure we'll like it I trust
Netflix I trust that they know what I
like and I will watch it and it probably
has skewed my judgment that's the world
we live in I have found Netflix has not
been great with me that's because your
kids have access to your account you and
I gave them their own accounts it was
like why is this popping up yes
absolutely
Netflix Spotify Amazon Google creepier
clever it's you know it's marketing I
know that I have typically been like the
naysayer and the conspiracy theory guys
absolutely this isn't but this is just
fine a securitizing right that's like
taking the fact that you're using the
device out of it it's nothing more than
logging and advertised
sure it's--that's oldest yeah if if it
weren't so obvious it would be creepy
but because it's so obvious it's clever
what would be creepy is if you weren't
using the device and then like if you
were just having a conversation about
fiber content and food but you didn't
ask the device and then the next day it
popped up but that didn't happen that's
not what that did not happen so I should
be clear
this was a discussion with Amazon echo
right and she it whatever you want to
call it was very helpful very
informative I I'll just ask it again my
kids say you trusted Amazon echo more
than you trust me my daughter says I
told you the answer to that and yet
you're asking Amazon echo well she
probably asked the Amazon echo three
minutes she's genius they just know the
answer but then I'm like let me test
that not that I doubt you child but I
just need to check the internet through
a vocal search that's like GPS like I
used ways yeah time and I'm trying to
prove ways wrong and I just can't do it
can't do it no I don't use Waze I use
Google Maps ways starts with Google Maps
as a base and then adds more user input
so it's better mmm the foo says it's
clever if you expect it Jeff
creepy otherwise for example if you are
pregnant and you don't actually know it
but then you start getting ads for they
did that with me no no married I
recently married I changed status oh so
they start showing you diaper apps and
they start they it's like an algorithm
they know my age they know my marital
status no at this point like like come
on Sasha it's been a while why aren't
you pregnant I don't know like they send
you and so like for a while I was
getting some maternity stuff and I was
like this is kind of weird because dave
was searching for our baby stuff and
it's funny you should say that because
like that aside aside I had a friend who
said I'm on the Internet and suddenly
I'm getting all these ads for tattoos
okay and I said okay hold on back up for
just a second let's understand what's
happening here
who's your internet service provider and
she says oh well I get my internet from
the folks upstairs so turns out the guy
upstairs was looking for a new tat and
was searching for it and because they're
on the same ip address of course her ads
start becoming let's hope she wasn't
like I don't searching anything that she
didn't want ads for upstairs sure right
yeah yeah yeah if you want to think
about that though she searches listening
to the IP address right it's like in my
course I'm learning about some very
interesting disorders and diseases which
I searched that I can do you know
presentations and projects and such like
I'm pretty sure that Google thinks that
I'm dying a thousand deaths of a
thousand different things I said to my
wife who is an author by the way are you
sure you want to Google when you're
writing this murder mystery how do you
murder like that's dangerous stuff folks
all of a sudden and you know the FBI is
at your door or something like that so
creepy or clever 100% of people here in
the studio say it's clever 100 percent
of those polled on my twitter at robbie
Ferguson said that is creepy
really yeah polarizing results ah
polarizing pool fair and so if you visit
our Facebook channel you see that my son
says why are you whispering and I said
well because I'm afraid the NSA are
listening and he laughed and I laughed
and Amazon echo laughed and with that
we'll be right back everybody we've got
a great show planned for you we've got a
lot to do we are going to be converting
a micro sim into a nano sim for about
the same price as just buying a new sim
and then you got to go through all the
hoops but we're gonna save you those
hoops and also we are going to be
looking at how to correct the
colorization the white balance on a
photo that has no no wait how do you do
it
we'll find out we sure will stick around
[Music]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
welcome back everybody
it is category five technology TV this
is episode number 608 I'm Robbie
I'm Sasha and I'm Jeff nice to have you
here and today we are looking at the GNU
image manipulation program now we've
looked at this in the past and Sasha you
mentioned hey this is like when we
looked at white balance and fixing right
the colors exactly there was like a
series of like pictures of bathrooms and
bedrooms had white we selected the white
and then we yeah so now we're not having
white well white that white balance is a
fantastic tool for photographers and for
editors you have to have something white
in the shot
yeah and I've suggested that what I will
do is I'll actually take like an
eight-and-a-half by 11 piece of white
paper which I know is as close to white
as I'm gonna get and I'll put it kind of
off to the corner of the shot as I'm
taking the picture if I know that
there's there's nothing in this photo
that's gonna be white right or I'll just
make sure that there is something that's
going to be white but what happens if
you're in a place that doesn't have any
white is there such a place there's got
to be named one the forest the deep dark
depths of the forest yes I guess like if
it's a little bitty jar like there's
internal picture on say a car or
something that's got like a black and
gray interior yeah right and you know
what's gonna happen there and we learned
this the last time we looked at white
balances what happens there Jeff is that
your camera is going to interpret the
bright light coming in from the window
as white yeah because it has no white to
interpret so it's gonna say well this is
as close to white as I can get that's my
white balance and then everything is off
yeah the colorization is off and if
you're not aware of that tutorial that
we taught how to then correct that make
sure you click on the links which I'll
post below if you're watching this on
any of our online platforms if you're
watching this on cable TV or another
platform where you just don't have
access to those links please visit our
website category five dot TV and do a
quick search for GIMP which is short for
the GNU image manipulation
and that's going to help you to find
those tutorials and there are loads of
them right we've done a lot so today
we're gonna look at hey what happens if
yeah great suggestions in the chat room
maybe you two can keep track of what's
going on in the chat room norman 5 makes
a couple of good ones
oh yeah caves and tunnels caves and
tunnels they don't have white yeah
that's true
yeah if you're driving through a tunnel
and you happen to snap a picture where's
your white balance coming that not
taking pictures at night taking pictures
at night what where's your light at work
stars the moon I hear stuff the imagines
my name is white can be not if you get a
Blood Moon Oh what happens then then
your Blood Moon just looks white just
like I swear to you this was a Blood
Moon when I took it yeah yeah but what
happens when you don't have anything to
white balance off of well let's actually
get into it so thank you for that little
lead in the segues here come on Jeff
that was a pro I'm gonna head over to
pixels calm I love pixels calm because
it's like a it's a free service that
allows you to grab stock photos for how
much Sasha how much money's are we gonna
spend today no monies today no monies
today just throwing stock photos at you
absolutely free I mean if you've got a
blog or anything at all jump on to
pixels calm this is a free service for
you to be able to grab some stuff I'm
gonna do a quick search for warehouse
and I'm doing this because I know a
warehouse is probably a place where
there's not necessarily gonna be a lot
of white some of these shots yeah like
here's a good example Jeff of that dark
shot where the window has been
interpreted as white right but it's very
under saturated it's very black and
white so you know I yeah I could adapt
that and touch it up but you see what I
mean those windows are what it's
thinking is white yeah right
now this shot I mean obviously they're
all white there yeah there's a lot of
white so the camera is saying
everything's white Liz Megan white let's
make it look like a hospital room
so that's not a good example either but
some you feel like I feel like we should
probably look up like a tunnel or okay
what about the one in the bottom corner
there's like no light there
well that's no light but what we're
looking for specifically is like that
room that is missing white that one's
blue that one is an example that really
clearly shows hey the camera has said
the light coming in from the outside is
white and so let's color balance to that
the lights the fluorescent tube lights
are white that's what the camera's
telling us would be gray in reality yeah
and we know that fluorescent tube lights
unless they're like 6,000 K they're
yellow they're gonna be yellow they're
gonna be 3,200 K in a warehouse like
that so and when I'm talking about that
I'm talking about the color balance of
those lights so we know that the
colorization of that particular photo
this particular warehouse photo is
completely off right it's got a lot of
blue what's say we free download that
stuff and start playing around and bring
that up okay there we go I'm gonna bring
this up into the GNU image manipulation
program which is a free programming get
a gimp.org and convert that to my
screens color palette and there we go so
we've got loads and loads of blue so
where we gonna start I mean we don't
have any white to sample so we learned
the last time that if we right-click and
we go colors levels and we choose white
balance and then we select something
that should be white well what's
supposed to be white in this photo I
don't know you're like it's the pillar
white no I doubt it and see what the
camera has done is has said that that
window is white or the light is white
it's very inaccurate and so that
demonstrates for us what you and I were
describing which is if the white balance
is off and I can't detect the white
balance there is no white it's gonna
skew the photo towards some other
spectrum be a blue or yellow or magenta
and so that's what you end up with is
this photo that gets uploaded to two
pixels that is so blue it's obviously
wrong yeah that's a funny blue factory
mm-hmm so we looked at levels and that's
the first starting point that we're
gonna look at this week as well we're
not gonna touch any of the levels
themselves instead what we're gonna do
is we're gonna actually adapt for not
the white balance because we don't have
white but you said it at the top of this
what color should this photo be it
should be great gray yes he nailed it
you nailed it this was hard
well I'm being careful and that wasn't a
hard hit so we mentioned Sasha that
we've got black we've got grey and we've
got white right so which one are we
gonna choose Geoff any guesses you
weren't here but any guesses great yes
so we're actually going we're not gonna
go with white balance because we don't
have any white to balance based on but
we can correct what the camera thinks
was white by saying let's pick a gray
point within this photo so I'm clicking
on gray and now let's say the floor
three let's do that to one click nothing
this is how we do things around here
three two one click yes okay that looks
legit wait a minute
Wow could it be that easy
uh yeah I can uh yeah it can yeah he
says so just like when we were doing
white balance what am I gonna do I'm
just gonna kind of move around the photo
until that's got too much green that's
got too much green that's pretty good
looking good so I'm gonna say okay I'm
happy there yeah that's my happy place
yeah well then see so we can correct
that they put it up for us session but
you want to correct this before you use
the photo and this is just a great
example of a photo that came off the
camera and got uploaded and that's what
you're going to encounter is you're
taking photos you're going to encounter
things where it's like I don't remember
it being so blue
but that's what the camera shows me
that's the photo so these are not raw
photos these are JPEGs and this gives us
an opportunity to correct that you know
what's funny about that photo what is it
we were looking at it going all what
would be white in there I don't think
there's anything in there I had no clue
those stupid pylons were in there
because it was so blue you didn't even
so you don't even see them now the
pylons that should have been white
strips there they are
look at that and they just kind of pop
out now yeah but I still see a couple of
things now I'm zoomed in a little bit
here but I see for example those air
ducts at the top have a slew they've got
like a blue kind of greeny hue so let's
take it to the next level I'm gonna
right click so now we're stepping away
from that one tool the levels tool that
we've been using yep to get our balance
now we're gonna step into colorization
so this is where we can really tweak
things so we want to pull that down a
little bit so the next step is I'm going
to adjust what's called the color
balance so just up here in colors color
balance I'm going to grab my shadows see
this so I've got shadows mid-tones and
highlights first of all let's start with
shadows and I've got blue yellow so this
is the spectrum so if I pull toward blue
it's gonna go really blue if I pull
toward yellow it's gonna go really
yellow but if I look yeah that's but if
I find that happy medium where I've
pulled out just enough blue but I
haven't fallen toward the yellow
spectrum I can just kind of get it in
there it's gonna be it's not gonna be
much of an adjustment 6.4 and the
negative and I need to be clear that the
numbers that we're approaching here the
numbers that we're hitting are specific
to this photo it's gonna be different
for yours
right what we're learning here is not
the end-all be-all solution to every
photo issue right we're learning
technique right the tool that you can
use for your particular photo yeah and
it may differ now when you're adjusting
this I feel like you were looking at the
main photo I am Jeff yeah at the end of
the day like the reason you wanted a
justice because the ductwork color was
off so it's good good point would it not
have made sense to focus in on the
ductwork to get the color on that right
to just everything else I want to be
careful that I'm not affecting the
entire photo in such a way that it turns
you
hello because I've pulled enough blue
out of the ductwork so I want to I want
to find that happy balance okay okay so
so let's let's take a look at that let's
bring out see what happens if if I go
too far in the spectrum yeah that
ductwork if we if we concentrate on that
is turning to like a yellowy green yes
so even going down a little bit in the
photo so making the photo lose some of
that blue tinge is not really effecting
the blue in the ductwork correct so the
next step Jeff is I'm gonna jump into
mid-tones and I'm gonna do exactly the
same thing and I'm gonna pull down a
little bit now that's fallen again too
far toward yellow so I'm just gonna be
very very careful that I'm a little more
subtle with that there we go okay now
highlights so where things start to get
exciting pull that down a little bit and
you want to kind of you want to look at
that ductwork but at the same time I'm
looking at the whole photo I don't want
to pull too much blue out look at that
it almost looks like you know what it
looked like originally that is that's
looking pretty good yeah now one final
thing as you mentioned there is still
too much blue in the top here now could
that be because maybe there was like a
studio light or something that they were
using to illuminate things I think it
all stems from the fact that we've got
thirty to thirty-five hundred Kelvin
lighting so we've got fluorescent tube
lighting that is toward what spectrum
you said it I did yellow yellow yellow
right we all know that fluorescent tube
lighting Falls toward the green yellow
end of the spectrum right so you
remember when we're looking at
saturations and everything what does the
slider say we've got blue on one side
and what color on the other yellow
yellow so if the camera has compensated
for the amount of yellow in the lighting
by pushing toward the blue spectrum what
do we end up with or really blue photo
exactly so in order to compensate for
that we need to pull back on that blue
to bring it back into the actual reality
of the spectrum which is yellow right
right so let's let's look at what our
final step here is going to be in again
this is a tutorial that you can do in a
matter of
it's like we're showing you this and
it's very very quick in order to correct
this photo and so I'm gonna right click
and I'm going to go colors and this time
I'm going to go hue/saturation and watch
what happens here as I select blue the B
Channel and start bringing down the
saturation okay I'm gonna bring that
right down and the saturation really
starts to look it's getting there okay
now I'm gonna I'm not gonna stop there
now I've brought that all the way down
because the blue is pretty heavy and
bringing it down doesn't seem to make a
whole lot of difference so so that means
I need to actually pull toward the cyan
end of the spectrum so I'm going to
actually click on cyan as well and now
pull the saturation down on that slowly
and watch what happens and see what
starts to happen yeah see that ductwork
up at the top yeah that's me it starts
to turn it's kind of like a silver I
want to pull a little bit of yellow out
of that photo as well so I clicked
yellow on the spectrum and desaturate a
little bit just to pull out what am i
doing I'm not pulling the yellow out of
the photo I'm bringing back the amount
of yellow in the lighting right without
pulling toward the blue end of the
spectrum
so now as clean as that is I've got this
photo look at this folks look at the
duct work that looks good that looks
silver we've got natural yellow coming
in from those windows not white it's not
white right it's a natural sunlight it's
like a yellowy hewed light right is it
possible to paste the original just
slightly beside it so you can see the
stark difference now sure yeah what I
can do here Jeff I'm gonna you guys want
to see that I think Jeff wants to show
you this so I'm gonna actually I'm going
to save this as and I'm gonna call this
an xcf file and then I'm gonna open the
original file you guys are gonna be mind
blown as soon as I open this ready okay
that that was our starting point folks
do you remember that I'm gonna paste
that in on top so that was our starting
point with a photo that was not a raw
image this was a
JPEG image so this is a compressed image
I'm gonna so now that's what it looked
like I'm gonna bring down the opacity of
that ready here we go we're gonna fade
into our edited version amazing and
there we go so we have corrected not
only the the white balance but we've
actually corrected like look at how
natural that sunlight looks coming in
there it's got that beautiful natural
look jump back to the original photo
what do we see and you may not have seen
it right off the bat you may have
thought that that was a natural-looking
photo until you suddenly see our edited
version which only takes a few moments
to to do that and then we find out that
they actually painted the thing blue oh
no it was actually a blue warehouse
there blue lights
who knew but the fact is is if you take
that little extra moment right with each
of your photo so you're gonna be
printing photos you're gonna be posting
them on your blog you're gonna be
posting them on Facebook or on Twitter
or wherever you post your photos for
family and friends if you just take that
extra couple of moments to just color
correct it tweak it a little bit you're
gonna find that you're gonna end up with
way better results so for sure
absolutely so I hope you've enjoyed that
tutorial we're gonna be right back when
we come back I'm gonna be showing you
how to convert a micro sim into a nano
sim making your old phone card work in a
new phone stick around
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
everybody
Jeff Sasha have you ever upgraded your
phone yes and what happens when you do
that is it an onerous process in order
to get your phone service transitioned
over generally yes mm-hmm yep audio
thright don't like upgrading my phone
simply for that purpose there's nothing
anymore than having to redo everything
what if you have to change your phone
number because you got a new SIM have
you ever had that happen yes yeah
annoying
frustrating is anything now way back I
mean way back on category 5 technology
TV episode number 385 I was way back
yeah I took a sim and I used a template
in order to for free modify that sim
into a micro sim and install it in this
phone for my wife cool okay that was
cool now time has gone on and the screen
starts to feel really tiny on this
little samsung galaxy LTE yeah and you
realize okay now it's time to upgrade
let's get on to something a little nicer
like a yeah I've got a blackberry
kicking around so let's stick the SIM
card in that it's a micro sim now
because I converted it manually okay but
the BlackBerry Prive are any modern
phone is going to be a what nano SIM
yeah yeah like we're talking taking it
from this to this which was easy to do
manually but then we're taking it down
to this yeah you can't exactly knife
that you might be able to but there's a
little bit of a risk involved so that
the fact is you can transition your plan
over to a new sim you can contact the
phone provider you can actually port
your number over to a new sim and you
can go through that process and and
it'll be you it'll be fine it cost you
ten bucks for the new sim yep kostya
what half hour to an hour on the phone
to actually get them to do that for you
or in the store if you happen to deal
with the store now we use pay-as-you-go
so it's not a store it's like a virtual
like it's phone based and you buy your
card minutes at a gas station tonight
but it's a great deal so you know what
do you go through so is $10 plus the
time plus possibly like hey maybe it
won't work or whatever else what if we
could take this now so we've got the
micro sim let's turn it into a nano sim
but how can we do that because as you
say it's a little bit harder to do that
manually with an exacto knife because
you're now getting really really close
to the sim chip and if you get a little
bit off you might actually damage it we
want to be careful right so I'm gonna I
feel like we should be saying don't try
this at home do try this at home if you
head over to cap five dot TV slash sim
and I'm gonna jump over here if you guys
want to transition me over to this
camera I'm gonna show you what I've come
up with so at cap five dot TV slash sim
we've got a micro sim cutter so this is
all that we need now okay I said ten
bucks is all it's going to take in order
to in order to do like buy a new SIM
right and then you've got to go through
the owners process of adapting your
account and porting your number and all
that stuff well this is the same price
give or take a buck or two and you don't
need to do that because we're gonna use
the same sin I'm getting in the Box here
we've got a cutter here we've got what
looks like some adapters
we've got a sim ejection tool and that
is all that's in the box so let's get in
here so for the same price I'm gonna be
able to take that sim that micro sim at
this point I've converted it already
there we go I've got another tool and
another batch of adapters so so if I go
too small I can then up up convert it to
something bigger cool all right so this
is all it is folks cat5 TV slash sim and
what it what this does and now this is
you got to watch when you're buying
these things because some of them will
just do a particular type of SIM card
but what this actually does is it
converts a sim to a micro sim or a micro
sim to a nano sim and it will actually
punch those out just like a hole punch
huh all right that's the theory is it
going to work let's actually get into
the phone and let's see what's what's
involved here I want to see like is this
actually doable Jeff do you think I feel
like saying it has to be otherwise they
wouldn't have marketed the problem yeah
why would we be doing a show about dish
if it didn't work yeah I hear ya I feel
that's the question we ask a lot of
times you have to make sure you don't
put it in backwards you're upside down
absolutely but as you know a SIM card is
not going to go in backwards or upside
down so this is the SIM card that the
micros the Micro SIM that I created from
a sim right see how close I already am
to the circuitry I don't want to risk it
using an exacto knife I want to use a
tool that is going to actually punch
this into a proper nano sim this is cool
so this device obviously I'm gonna be
able to reuse this this is apparently
going to convert this to the the proper
size for the phone so let's pop it in
there you put it in the right way
obviously well obviously Jeff obviously
would I ever mess something like that a
little bit because you did not read the
directories so okay are there any mine
I feel like you just need to say okay
see how this little notch corner that's
how you know it's in the right like I
don't know stop it in just shove it in
just anxiety going on over there are no
instructions here folks this is a risk
that I am going to take on your behalf
because hey made in China and no
instructions whatsoever I didn't see a
manual okay that's all there is to it
my friends it's like anti Jeff device
there's no instructions okay well what
do we know about a micro sim so or a
nano sim I should say Wow I mean the
chip the chip itself is the same on all
size Sims right
okay that's a little bit tighter there
but it's the shape of the hole this is
making me nervous too now that you've
said it all right it has a little
diagram on here oh oh that's the
instructions that is the instruction
yeah see how it's got its got that notch
yeah so I see the notch okay I know
which way to put it in there are no
hints as to okay well obviously I can
tell by looking at the size that that
one is going to actually punch out I'm
sorry that one is going to punch out a
micro-sim because it fits perfectly
right so here's a sim to a micro sim
this Becht I know you're doing this oh
she doesn't because she's nervous right
now all all of her contacts all of her
text messages everything are on here
right this is a smaller sim ask for
permission before you do this I am
getting micro sim nano SIM and
they all run together maybe yeah cut it
cut it as some micro first and then
transition it down to the nano III I
would like to point out the chatroom is
not having a lot of faith in you right
about now they don't believe in me it's
not you it's the process it's the
process so which one should you be going
into I want to go because you keep
switching between the two that's what I
want to see okay so let's get into the
phone itself
all right weaving they've included this
this tool to eject the sim port there we
go okay there we are so that's how tiny
we need to get okay right right so let's
look at the sim the the micro sim and
see that okay that needs to fit in there
okie doodle okay mister so that's from
the phone now let's look at these as
well so we've got the three different
adapters here that they've included so
if I were to put my my micro sim on that
you can see okay that's gonna turn it
into a sim this one here is going to
turn a micro sim or a nano sim into a
sim this one here is going to turn a
nano sim into a micro sim see this is
the thing the chip is the same on each
it's the size of the the actual card
okay so who we do we try did you back it
up you can't back it up come on now this
is it this one here with a micro sim in
here feels pretty tight like that feels
like a good fit and if I look at this
okay that looks pretty good right okay
like that's not right
of all the shows we've done this one is
giving me extreme anxiety or is giving
you anxiety at the smallest right cuz
you can always adopt it err this one
okay so this cutter is gonna take a sim
and turn it into a nano sim this one is
going to take a nano SIM and/or a micro
sim and turn it into a nano sim this one
is going to take a sim and turn it into
a micro sim you guys follow me
sim to micro sim micro sim to nano sim
sim to nano sim okay so I'm gonna put my
micro sim in the middle here
make sure she's aligned up the way that
I want make sure that it matches the
diagram on this side okay Sasha why are
you talking like that you don't this is
like you don't want some really awkward
TV show okay and ready yes uh-huh oh my
gosh I'm nervous it's gonna pop right
out
oh there's no coming back from that
there's no coming back from that folks
so what I was saying is for ten bucks
you buy a new sim that you're gonna have
to go for all the hoops same price and I
can reuse that and I can redo this as
many times as I want give up for ten
bucks I don't have this anxiety okay
folks here we go
okay this is gonna work nano-sim into
the phone's adapter there we go oh yeah
it okay okay into the phone this is
better than doing it with an exacto
knife it's safer I would imagine so
speak for yourself I'm dying over here
are you okay
get it in there that seems like a really
tight fit it's not coming well it's got
its got the it's got the sim in there
now
cooee when we come back we're gonna see
if we've got a signal stick around
okay breathe welcome back I am so
nervous right now I'm gonna work my way
around here all right you guys can
attest to the fact that all we've done
is turned it on took a commercial break
and here we are we're back over to the
unboxing camera and ladies are we ready
yeah Jeff are you breathing I trying to
saw the phone's booted the phone is
booted as you can see make sure there's
no yeah everything's good now so do you
have like contacts on the sim oh yeah
look okay this is good oh no service but
as you saw yes okay so is there data on
the sim like did you upload contacts and
stuff to it or well let's not that we
want to see all your contacts on air but
oh boy okay here's what we're gonna do
don't say friendless it stressed me out
okay okay
dial your number my number yeah dial
your smart phone number okay turn your
ringer on it's on it's on silent
okay cellular network not available okay
hold on hold on hold on cuz it's there
oh oh no no it's gonna work for us
freakin goat
baby I love you I see that she is live
right now put the kids to bed oh okay
okay it's hot in here that's why real
surprise rude I'll write Kenya okay it
says it's dialing yes styling and is it
ringing
I'm getting it I am getting a phone call
you're getting a phone call I am getting
your phone
I guess my marriage is saved I'm just
gonna decline that oh yeah and just like
oh my goodness so for the same price as
buying a SIM without having to go
through any of the stress right we're
able to punch out a new nano SIM Jeff
we'll get back to to normal after he'll
be fine you are you're getting for
Christmas cat five dot TV slash sim and
if you do it just like that your wife
your husband your girlfriend boyfriend
your friend whatever can react like that
and then you just be like magic yeah so
you can convert a sim to a micro sim to
a nano sim and now all of a sudden your
sim is compatible with any phone doesn't
matter what it is you don't have to bow
to the network to order a new sim or get
them to port things over it's just one
card and it works in every device thanks
to that little hole punch that I can now
reuse so if anyone needs to use that hey
it's work is done here
do I do I like look white cuz I feel
like I'm yeah just like oh yeah flush
iris there's no blood pumping through my
face right now ladies and gentlemen cat
five dot TV slash sim yes pulled it off
all right so we're gonna jump over to
the newsroom Sasha if you're ready for
it I am alright here are the stories
were covering this week in the category
five TV newsroom an open source bug
poses a danger a dangerous threat to
sites running on Joomla Drupal or typo3
a zero-day exploit in whatsapp has been
used in targeted spyware attacks
surprise Microsoft has sent out free
remote desktop security patches for
antiquated systems from Windows XP up to
Server 2008
in an effort to prevent a possible want
to cry like attack San Francisco is the
first US city to ban facial recognition
these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories the snake Linux bias Jeff Weston
Gemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play
you're supposed to act
okay I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap five dot
TV slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
satiric mannan here the top stories for
following this week an open source bug
poses a dangerous threat to sites
running Joomla Drupal or typo3
developers and security researchers are
warning that websites running the Drupal
Joomla or typo3 content management
systems all are vulnerable to attacks
that could possibly execute malicious
code until administrators installed just
released patches the vulnerability
resides in the far stream wrap a PHP
component developed and open sourced by
CMS maker typo3
the flaw stems from a path Trez
transversal bug that allows hackers to
swap a site's legitimate fire archive
with a malicious one a fire archive is
used to distribute a complete PHP
application in a library or single file
in much the way a Java archive file
bundles many Java files into a single
file Drupal developers rated the
severity of the vulnerability affecting
their CMS as moderately critical that's
well below the highly critical rating of
a recent Drupal vulnerability and an
earlier remote execution flaws that took
the name Drupal gedan still the
vulnerability represents enough of a
risk that administrators should patch it
as soon as possible on Drupal where the
exploit was first detected an attacker
would have to have limited administrator
privileges such as those given to
marketing people or graphic designers
pardon me
however some community
modules might be vulnerable because of
this flaw in the Drupal core Joomla
developers meanwhile issued their own
advisory that rated the severity is low
typo3 developers didn't provide a
severity rating for their own CMS Drupal
users should update to the latest point
release right away patches have been
issued for versions seven eight point
six and eight point seven on Joomla the
flaw affects versions three point nine
point three through three point nine
point five and the fix is available in
three point nine point six typo3 CMS
users should either upgrade to far
stream rap-rap versions v three point
one point one and V two point one point
one manually or ensure composer
dependencies are raised to those
versions okay that was a mouthful yeah
I'm like that's like a dr. Seuss book
right there and it's warm in here I mean
how many website is freezing are you
talking about websites run off Drupal
and Joe yeah that's those of the go to
them you may not even know well and you
know WordPress is there too yet it's not
affected by this particular actually but
so if you're not familiar with Drupal
Joomla or typo3 you can think Allah
WordPress same kind of idea but you
think about okay well they'd have to
have administrator access to some degree
in order to exploit this but what does
that mean well every customer who has
ever called me and said I want to be
able to edit my phone number myself
whenever it changes they have access to
doing that yeah right they don't always
have the strongest of passwords let
alone the best of security mindedness
necessarily so it's not just the super
administrators who know their way around
these platforms it's the people who are
editing their website for them who may
be a very lower level employee or even
like a co-op student or something who
has access to changing things on their
website for them very common you have
small business owners that typically
will try and use an easy-to-use platform
to create their own webs
yeah and quite often there is something
like Drupal throw the you know
extensions in get this site up and then
walk away like I never got to update the
content so I could just leave it sitting
there and not paying attention to the
style so for those that have a Drupal
based Joomla base or the other one I'm
blanking on type of type one three site
did they get an alert they they get
something from there is this is your
alert Jim wheeler if you're using Joomla
upgrade something else yeah I'm
surprised that they said it's not a
severe vulnerability I think it's funny
that they have certain levels of severe
yeah there's low severe low critical
like this is a critical issue it really
is critical in that as I say like a lot
of companies have lower level employees
who have access to that there it should
be safe or unsafe at this point unsafe
this is really safe let's just say it's
critical up update and I understand what
you're saying but at the same time
there's a difference between by the way
anybody can do this on your site versus
somebody needs to have some sort of
admin access to make this happen so
there's a couple more steps that have to
be applied before this exploit can be
utilized so I can understand why they're
saying it's not quite end of the world
you know issues Drupal get it like
Drupal getting but definitely not
something you want to have sitting
around for too long and especially if
you don't have secure passwords I mean
how many people like oh my goodness
there's so many sites they're all the
same password just a number at the end
okay now password one two three four but
does that not make us complacent if I
believe it by believing that this is
critical but it's not that important
it's not that dangerous like let's just
okay this is a really serious exploit
that can allow code execution on my
server right yeah we're just saying this
is a suggestion to fix get effects yeah
just update let's just play it safe and
just update your server or your website
for sure sounds it sound fair
used in targeted spyware attacks the
vulnerability that allowed attackers to
install spyware on victims phones has
been patched but it's too late for many
as attackers were able to inject spyware
onto phones and targeted malware
campaigns the popular messaging app
discovered in early May that attackers
were installing surveillance software on
iPhones and Android phones by using
whatsapp Skol function whatsapp
confirmed on Monday that the flaw which
has now been patched is a buffer
overflow vulnerability in whatsapp swipe
stack which allows remote access in
execution via specifically specially
crafted series of secure packets sent to
a target phone number Adam brown manager
of security solutions at synopsis says
quote victims of this attack include
journalists and activists attackers are
able to use the victim's phone as a room
tap look at or change information on the
phone and find the victims location
among other things end quote
whatsapp is owned by Facebook and is
used by 1.5 billion people globally the
messaging platform touts itself as a
secure end-to-end encryption app for
communication security experts are
urging whatsapp users to update their
apps as soon as possible
yikes secure write whatsapp is supposed
to be that secure go to and yeah and
your your your source is said that this
is used by and is being exploited people
are being exploited there like
journalists and activists and I mean you
think about journalists in dangerous
scenarios they're going to use what what
is known to be a secure app in order to
do their communication so what what they
didn't say is how do you identify if you
have been compromised with the spyware
yeah yeah then you it's already too late
for people right so just so I guess
assume you have been especially if
you're in a situation sure but then how
do you like least with my phone I have I
have some monitoring software from ESET
so I'm hoping that that would catch it
but I mean if not everybody thinks to
protect their phone again no like ESET
mobile security will warn you if an app
is trying to gain access that you have
not authorized however the problem is is
that something like whatsapp if you use
it for encrypted phone calls which I
have not but if you do which a
journalist would write what are they
gonna do when he set says it that hey
this app that you're using whatsapp is
using your microphone allow yes right so
now that app is allowed so if that app
is exploited even with anti-malware even
with some form of protection even being
a smart user you have no control over
the fact that hey yeah you authorized
the microphone to be used and now it's
actually a wiretap so if you suspect
that you are one of the people who are
affected if you uninstall the app and do
a factory reset of your phone would not
get rid of the spyware no you lose
everything yeah you would lose
everything you almost hope that just
updating the software like the version
of whatsapp to the latest because
they've patched it Facebook has fixed it
right but it's those versions that are
susceptible that have received the
packet and being exploited right whether
it's retroactive or not maybe that's
something for you to inquire get into
the community and and find out I don't
have the answer to that Sasha and that's
an ominous thought like even if you
update does that fix it right we're not
you're right hearing that right does it
protect you for future yes but does it
fix what's happened in the past yeah if
you've already been exploited is it
retroactive and fixes it or are you
exploited and permanently exploited
that's the question
but it just goes to show that even an
app that you think is safe mm-hmm
because that's what whatsapp has
promoted itself as yeah it's true yep
and yeah you authentic you authorize it
to use certain aspects of your phone and
then that's exploited and guess what
you've given access to those malicious
parties yep yep scary stuff
surprised Microsoft has sent out free
antiquated systems from Windows XP to
Server 2008 in an effort to prevent a
possible wanna cry like attack it's that
time of the month again and Microsoft
has released a bumper bundle of security
fixes for a patch Tuesday but this time
they've done something outside the norm
by including patches for out of support
operating systems such as Windows XP and
Server 2003 usually support for such
aging operating systems cost big bucks
for companies who want to keep running
it but Microsoft has released a freebie
because of the serious nature of a
critical flaw in Remote Desktop Services
or Terminal Services as it was the
vulnerability allows remote code
execution with no user involvement or
any authentication required making it a
gift to anyone wanting to spread malware
basically find one of the countless
vulnerable Windows boxes facing the
internet or on a network and send a
carefully crafted packets to its remote
desktop service if running to start
executing malicious code on the machine
from there other computers can be found
by scanning IP ranges and then you've
got a proper old-school worm on your
hands a Microsoft advisory states that
because the vulnerability can be were
mobile any future malware that exploits
it could propagate from vulnerable
computer to vulnerable computer in a
similar way as their wanna cry malware
spread across the globe in 2017 using
the internal eternal blue NSA exploit
Microsoft warns that it is highly likely
malicious actors will write an exploit
for this vulnerability and incorporated
into their malware it's important that
affected systems are patched as quickly
as possible to prevent such a scenario
from happening it's a certainty that
this will be exploited in the wild since
it's a low-cost highly effective way of
quickly distributing ransomware and
Trojans Windows 8 and 10 are unaffected
but there's still a vast pool of older
systems out there that could be hit if
left unpatched including Windows 7
and and XP the affected operating system
builds include Windows 7 Windows Server
2008 r2 Windows Server 2008 Windows
Server 2003 and Windows XP Wow a lot I
think Microsoft was still servicing
those versions well they are only two
companies that are paying for extended
support right but now they're going
there they're saying ok this is so
serious that we have to patch this do
you guys this is one of those things
where it could you know they could have
said oh we won't worry about it but the
PR nightmare that cut could come from it
they're like let's just roll this out
forever I don't even know is it fully a
PR thing or is it like like because like
I think about Windows XP who's still
running Windows XP it's gonna be
hospitals and it's gonna be like places
like that that have not got the budget
to finally get on to current hardware
it's typically very behind absolutely so
we know that yeah so but a hospital for
as the example which has been hit in the
UK by wanna cry and that affects lives
and dangers lives yeah now what happens
if all these machines which you know or
maybe they're old like heart monitors
and and who knows what else and what if
they're impacted by that so you know
it's just gotta be it's just got to be
patched I mean we should we know we
shouldn't be running Windows XP we
probably shouldn't be running Windows 7
at this point do keep in mind if you
have Windows 7 installed on your
machines and of life is January so you
know we're very fast approaching that
end of life it's smart that they do this
because it protects everybody you know
from the the spread right because it's
it's not just gonna affect the older
versions it would I guess self
propagator well you're right that if
let's say we've got that one Windows XP
machine in the back room and we think oh
well nobody uses that so you know just
don't worry about it mm-hmm and never
think twice about it but that's the one
that's gonna be exploited right guess
what it's on the same land it's on the
same network as
your best computers right and in a
hospital environment all of your
hospital computers all of your all of
your point-of-sales in a store all of
everything that you have is connected to
that same network right in the chat room
Malpeque just mentioned that you know a
lot of ATMs absolutely I mean I remember
you still see a story yeah so anytime
there's a blue screen of death in an ATM
I laugh because it's still Windows XP
airports airports are still using XP on
some of their system I mean not not the
best modern airports but not every
Airport is the best you know they're not
all Pearson International right you know
so these are you know they've put in
their hundreds of thousands of dollars
worth of computer hardware that still
works so why should we change that why
should we put hundreds of thousands
dollars more into it when it's still
working yep and and and there's no
budget for that in a lot of cases not
necessarily with an airport but I'm just
giving examples where you know we end up
with older hardware or older software
and we're susceptible still gotta get it
fixed it's true it's good that Microsoft
is actually stepping up and doing that
because it really could lead to disaster
yeah oh absolutely I think it's
important to note because this is a
remote desktop exploit I just want to
say that remote desktop in and of itself
is not a safe thing to have turned on in
your computer correct
anyways right turn it off don't ever
turn it on and the reason I say that
there are tools that allow you to remote
into your computers that are safe that
if somebody tries to attack it will
block them remote desktop on the other
hand as a service on your computer that
when turned on allow you to connect to
your computer from home however there's
no security that's right if your
password is anything and your password
could easily be guessed by a bot yeah I
on your computer so think about this for
a second there they're gonna connect
they find them through the internet they
find computers that have RDP running and
they start guessing at the password
guessing at the password you never know
you would never know that they're trying
to guess at your password
come two o'clock in the morning when
they finally gain access to your
computer and you're at home in bed
they can wreak all kind of kinds of
havoc because guess what your computer
also has access to the server and you're
on your network and everything else so
now your network is completely
compromised and people say well how did
I get ransomware I've got antivirus
because you also had RDP enabled and
you've allowed an actual party to hack
into 'the using a bot your computer and
then a real person got in because the
bot now notifies them and says here's
the password to get into this IP address
either they have exploited your network
or they've taken your network they've
analyzed it figured out what kind of
assets you have and then they've sold
that to a third party in order to
compromise your network it's turn off
good test ok Wow just turn it off San
Francisco is the first US city to ban
facial recognition the emergent emerging
technology will not be allowed to be
used by local agencies such as the
city's Transport Authority or law
enforcement additionally any plans to
buy any kind of new surveillance
technology must now be approved by city
administrators opponents of the measure
said that it will put people safety at
risk and hinder efforts to fight crime
those in favor of the move said that
technology as it exists today is
unreliable and represented an
unnecessary infringement on people's
privacy and liberty in particular
opponents argued that the system us are
error-prone particularly when dealing
with women or people with darker skin
Matt Kaggle from the American Civil
Liberties Union in Northern California
says that by banning facial recognition
San Francisco has declared that the
technology is incompatible with a
healthy democracy and that residents
deserve a voice in decisions about how
high-tech surveillance about high-tech
surveillance the vote was passed by San
Francisco's Supervisors 8 to 1 with two
absent ease the measure is expected to
be officially passed into law after a
second vote next week ok ok it's
interesting how the technology has risen
up and hey this is the time that we live
in right we're right it makes me wonder
though like I don't know if they have a
casino at you know in the city but a lot
of casinos use facial recognition
software to pick out their frequent
problem clients that are booking and
stuff like that it makes me wonder how
that would impact businesses if it that
are utilizing it mm-hmm and I think
that's why some opponents to the law
have called for them to instead of
banning it outright to be to allow
certain industries to allow it for
example but they've clamped down on it
and said no yeah not at all it'd be
interesting to know and I feel like I've
just said that twice but if somebody
like if you use facial recognition if
you had to post it you know it's one
thing to say well like you know this
place is monitored by you know closed
caption recording but if it said this
building uses facial recognition we use
AI
it'd be interesting to see how that
impacted things instead of saying we're
not banning it but you have to signify
facial recognition is used if people
would go ooh okay I wonder if they would
reconsider if it weren't so I guess
unreliable because it's that's it rely
heard in the news recently about a young
man who was arrested because of facial
recognition right we don't know was his
claim that he was innocent
true or false right but what if it
raises a very big what-if mm-hmm
what if the facial recognition was
incorrect what if you walked into a
place did your shopping and then paid
and left and went home
and then saw your face on the news
because facial recognition said that you
still stole something from that store
well I mean any retail outlet build
shrinkage into their business model
because you know you're gonna have no no
no I know that aside though no but so
you take that aspect and go what if
business is all over the place had you
know facial recognition
built into their software so it would
automatically created a police report
and the fallout from this mm-hmm you
know and then to see you know if that
was in place and and then with this ban
on facial recognition how would it
change the game like there's so many
variables to it like where could it have
gone you change industry standards
versus where is it limited now that
almost makes me think what if they
created a controlled environment and
allowed the the AI to go wild right and
and to believe if it has any form of
consciousness to believe that it has the
authority to decide who's guilty and
who's innocent and in this controlled
environment where we know who's guilty
and who's innocent because it's all a
Truman Show what if what if we then look
at those reports and say okay well that
that AI says the Sasha stole a stereo
system right and we know she didn't
right but that's the thing like what if
somebody looks like you and the AI says
that's what if I did steal it and then I
went home and got some Botox or anything
right and then all of a sudden my face
doesn't match the face that stole it and
if the AI as we've learned huh has
problems with racial discrimination yeah
how like where does it how this is a big
problem because now okay well now who's
safe it's like we already deal with
racial issues with with you know guilty
before proven innocent right so is this
decision premature to all-out ban it or
is it more a fear-based decision or like
or is it it's not ready yet
it's new you're not going to allow X
let's see how it evolves over the next
little while right I mean it's gonna be
used at other places San Francisco can
just watch those other places and see
when they're ready to jump in right
get set up the controlled environment
let's see if sasha is a mastermind
criminal I believe she is well now that
I've said that the AI thinks you are
things I say are always true maybe
that's gonna show up in you I never make
a mistake right yes dear okay I want to
take a really quick look at coin gecko
and if you were watching the show last
week you know that we mentioned that the
entire market of cryptocurrency is
extremely volatile ya never know from
week to week what is going to happen
last week wasn't really good for Bitcoin
no you know what last week was just kind
of everything for the past few weeks has
just been kind of hovering coin was up
like 500 bucks dude you have no idea
because last week it was just kind of
hovering right there and then this week
so here we are seven days later so you
might be thinking four days later right
but here we are seven days later crypto
currency is going crazy so anyone who
bought last week one week ago if you
bought one Bitcoin you gained two
thousand two hundred and twenty six US
dollars good for you wow I'm talking a
jump from last week's five thousand nine
hundred $16.21 you asked to this week a
Bitcoin being worth eight thousand one
hundred and forty two dollars and 46 36
cents u.s. litecoin also gaining quite
significantly from seventy four dollars
and 31 cents last week to 101 fifty nine
this week aetherium if you're investing
or mining aetherium a we also jumped up
gaining seventy one dollars and seventy
cents which doesn't sound like a lot of
money but I mean this is per coin and
this is a coin that last week was only
one hundred and seventy dollars yeah so
to gain $71 that's almost doubling it's
an incredible game yeah mineiro at 66 48
last week gained 25 98 this week and
within the past seven days is now up at
ninety two dollars and 46 cents now our
little guys torque aka PKA stellite is
is gaining ever-so-slightly so cute 1.63
ten thousandth of a cent gaining 0.44
ten thousandth of a cent and turtle coin
also up at one point four four ten
thousandth of a cent do remember I mean
even though we're looking at these
numbers this weekend going wow I wish I
bought a Bitcoin last week yeah the the
entire cryptocurrency market is always
open so it could change overnight I mean
it could change a 1 a.m. and then again
at 1:30 a.m. that's right and you never
know what's gonna happen next it's
extremely volatile you never really know
what's happening and there are too many
factors as far as what's driving it
right now it has not stabilized so if
you decide to invest or mine make sure
you are extremely careful I mean my
suggestion is just don't invest anything
that you aren't willing to lose solid
advice I like to think so
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of yours of for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with ass white Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sacha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Jeff Westen this is category-five
technology TV don't forget to check out
our website category five dot TV so
great to have you here again with us
this week and I want to say thank you to
everyone who has pitched in now there
are a couple of different ways that you
can pitch in I mean there's just going
to our website visiting our partner
section and doing your shopping through
our links I mean if you're gonna shop on
Amazon anyways if you're gonna shop on
eBay or ThinkGeek or any of our partners
Newegg
you can do that through our website and
it doesn't cost you anything but it
supports category 5 TV and for those of
you who have decided to do that we thank
also if you are a patron and to become a
patron you just simply go to
patreon.com/scishow and there are perks
you can get access to like
behind-the-scenes videos and other
things that are not available anywhere
else
and that's just by donating as little as
a dollar a month and it helps us to pay
the bills helps us to keep on top of our
month-to-month and for those of you who
have decided to throw a little something
extra in the tip jar we thank you as
well this has been a very expensive time
for category 5 TV essentially we've got
a server that is on its way out we've
been very very fortunate that it has
held on for dear life but it's every
week getting a little worse and a little
worse and we know that it's all of a
sudden gonna say you know what I'm not
even going to turn on anymore because
I'm done and we've got pretty much all
the parts on order they're not all here
yet but I've got shipment confirmations
on pretty much everything that we need
there are a couple of other components
that we're still looking for and your
contributions are helping us to be able
to put that together and when we get all
the parts in stock we're gonna be
building that here on the show and it's
gonna be a lot of fun for all of us so
you can visit our tip jar at donate
category-five dot TV to pitch in for
that or just to show your support for
category-five which is free family
friend and friendly broadcasting but
that's all the time that we have this
week I want to remind you we are on
twitter at category-five TV as i've
mentioned earlier in the show i am on
twitter at robbie ferguson and I do
follow back so keep that in mind if you
want to give me a follow on YouTube
we're category 5 TV or you can go to
Linux tech show com which is just edited
down clips of category 5 so if you don't
want to watch the full one hour you can
just watch the little 10-minute snippets
here and there that are focused on the
actual features of the show and that is
Linux tech show com
we're on Plex Kodi every kind of player
that you can find we're we're finding
you were getting news that we're on
Spotify and iTunes and everything else
from viewers that are listening and
watching we are everywhere so you can
find us do a search if you're not seeing
us on your platform just let us know and
we will we'll reach out to those
platforms and see what we need to do in
order to get us on there and in the
meantime everything comes together on
our website category 5 TV that's where
you can go to find more content just
like this show so we'll see you again
next week thanks for joining us
take care
[Applause]
