Henry you're a big fan of single board
computers why yes I am Robbie why do I
ask Oh wouldn't you like to know beau
was here from a marriage right couple
weeks ago on episode 616 and he showed
us something really like that intrigued
me impressed me and excited me was it
the mini SPC the size of a stamp that
was cool okay thinking of the one I'm
thinking of is called oh that's luster
board yes what oh oh I think you forgot
it he left it for me
bless his heart so absolutely rocks so
this is Henry I'm just gonna explain
this quickly to you because you haven't
been here and you weren't here for
episode 616 time to learn these slots
that look like memory module slot yeah
each one takes a single board computer
really a module there called the a 64 so
pine modules or Esso pine modules from
pine 64 that's each module has four
cores
what yeah each module has two gigs of
RAM okay and a micro SD card reader hmm
the board the cluster board mm-hmm has
GPIO headers for all seven of the boards
Wow USB two for all seven of the boards
plus a USB micro plus you've got an emmc
shared reader here you've got real time
clock battery you've got Gigabit
Ethernet and all of these are connected
to a single Gigabit Ethernet port so
they're communicating with your network
so essentially this can either be a
cluster so you've got the power of all
of those cords yes right or they can be
individual computers so you can plug
this in and have seven computers show up
in your network and that really excites
me because I'm thinking like some of the
things that I could do like this would
be a Titan PI server yes this would be
an name's Linux server this would be
like a Debian server doing some I scuzzy
target
distribution on my network to give me a
network shares yes this one could be an
FTP server this one could be a lamp
stack to host my website this like I've
still got two left and I'm out of ideas
okay so here's a question though with
all of them connected all of them
running if one became compromised
through a network vulnerability would
all be compromised
no because each one is an individual
computer so okay so I say no well
possibly but no different than having
seven individual computers out there
again getting compromised right but be
smart about your security right of
course yeah and that's that's important
but each one is basically its own
computer it's like having seven
computers on your network but it's built
into one board I'm gonna show you what
the computer itself looks like Henry oh
my gosh this is the computer that's
smaller than my phone that's it
smaller than your phone you could fit
ten of these in your phone yeah it's
just that the phone doesn't have the
proper backplane yeah yeah that's all so
we've got microSD we've got the a 64 SOC
just a gorgeous little card so this goes
in here just like a memory module it's
actually yeah you got to put it in the
right way Robbie yeah there you go so I
would have seven of these would be seven
different computer cool guys but then
I'm looking at this and I'm like okay
well what do I do about mounting it and
I started looking at some really cool
and micro ATX cases and thinking about
that kind of thing then you got to get a
special power supply I did try my
standard power supply on this like a
nice Thermaltake ATX power supply yeah
but this is only a 5 volt draw oh so
isn't working there's no 12 volts so
it's not it's not drawing enough it's
not drawing anything from the 12 volt so
my power supply doesn't show power good
and it doesn't it doesn't power up yeah
so then I thought well I could put some
inline resistors to draw on the 12 volt
channel and power up the power supply
but then I've got to mash up the cabling
on my good
so then I started thinking okay I could
buy a different power supply okay then I
got talking to one of my friends who
happened to have an old mono wall what
this is a router okay so this is a micro
ATX router powered by mono wall but mono
wall was discontinued the the main board
in this is just a 32-bit mainboard so
it's not anything that you can really do
anything else with these days and it's
not powerful it's just it's meant to be
a router right so but it is a micro ATX
case and there's a really really
interesting thing about this I'm just
gonna get in here Henry because I've got
my screwdriver I want to get the cover
off of here for you and show you what is
really intriguing me about this because
mmm the power is the main thing with the
this open cluster board okay how am I
going to power it tell me that the screw
holes for this to not form fact or two
in there this is a micro ATX mainboard
so this fits the form back people
actually fit in there perfectly okay so
it's built to fit in micro ATX case but
how are you gonna power it well you'd
have to have a big like an ATX power
supply or a micro ATX STX power supply
something like that this is an older
system yep but what I love about this
Henry it takes these two cables mmm from
a power adapter which I have here
somewhere you guys can see it I can't
reach it it has a five volt power supply
that is six point seven amps okay six
point seven six point six seven amps
giving 12 volts as a matter of fact now
what it does is it takes that power from
that power supply goes through the down
stepper to five volts okay and it has an
ATX kind of connector on it oh my
goodness so I'm gonna pull this
mainboard out of here this hole
router mainboard I'm gonna put the micro
ATX so pine cluster board in there
notice they are exactly the same form
factor yep right and now this one little
tiny computer on the network is seven
quad core computers okay with two gigs
of ram each each one running debian or
some other server OS whatever I want
oh my goodness so cool so now all you
need though is like a backplane that has
the USB hookups so that you can just
only if you need USB Jeff
if fair enough I could connect the X I
could connect the fate of the front
panel USB to these USB ports yep so that
if I plug in a USB it could go into one
of these so pine modules if I wanted to
yep and I might do that
maybe have one of them that's that uses
that for something maybe storage or
something like that but realistically
I'm gonna use the gigabit yeah
connectivity yeah for storage I'm gonna
use the gigabit or I scuzzy or something
like that or even an SFTP or sshfs would
work for me as well
CIFS would work fine like samba
so there you go folks that's gonna go in
there Henry so I've got to order more so
pine modules am I gonna fill that thing
to the brim yeah I'm gonna put some
Kingston SD cards in there
and we're gonna see what we can come up
with it's gonna be so I'm looking
forward to the day where something like
that becomes the new broadcast server
you know you need the GPU that's all you
really got a good GPU for broadcasting
however what this could one of those so
pine modules could do is be a recipient
for nimble streamer so the broadcast
server could receive could be sending
the broadcast to that and then that
could stream it to nimble streamer and
rebroadcast it it could also then daisy
chain to the next so pine board and take
a picture every 10 seconds of the video
stream live to create snapshots for us
so that we have some thumbnails to work
with so they're like there's so much you
can do then you could use one of those
USB ports to plug in a web
and that can be a backstage pass camera
that could be taking a picture every 10
seconds or it could be streaming live
video to YouTube it can do that so no
it's broadcast broadcast server know
you're limiting it slap on the radio so
much you do so much with it because it's
just a whole bunch of little service is
exciting inside of an old mono wall yeah
it's funny as you're going through this
this reminds me of way back oh gosh I
want to say 15 years ago yeah remember
when you were starting to work on
building a computer into a desk yeah
this totally reminds me that's like
yanking something that it wasn't
intended for it's like I got repurpose
this yeah back in the day yeah an old
desk with the with the drawer handle I
cut out the drawer handle and put an
optical drive in there and then the
motherboard was in the drawer itself
back before SBC's were even thought of
yeah and it was just a little ATX
computer in a drawer this is gonna be
even better Jeff have you have you
played with those yet I want to hear
from you I want to get some ideas hey I
mentioned some of the things that I
might do with it what would you like to
see us do with it I've got some cheap
GPIO connectivity am I gonna connect
some things to that and see if we can
another idea I had was to write an app
for your phone so that when you connect
to the Wi-Fi and you so you get to the
studio and what do you normally do you
text me and say I'm here unlock the
doors right yep so think about this one
of those so pine modules running an
Apache server with connected app that
only works on our Wi-Fi as soon as you
come into the Wi-Fi it brings up a thing
that allows you to push a button that
turns on a light that tells me that
you're here basically like a silent
doorbell it's a smart office right that
would be an easy just a relay coming off
the GPIO being triggered by a GPIO
command on the Apache server and a
little app that lets you ring the
virtual doorbell but only when you're
connected to our Wi-Fi so just when you
get to the studio so that when you'd set
other idea
sorry Jax why does it say it gets read
like on the Orville game locked I can't
wait to try
[Music]
[Applause]
