this week well last
last week I received my pine Book Pro
yes you did ANSI edition yes what is
ANSI like when you kind of get agitated
and no it's a keyboard it's like the
u.s. style keyboard yes that's exactly
right so an T essentially means it's
verb eight it's like it's a cinema
synonym a synonym for us keyboard layout
so when you think about a u.s. keyboard
layout
you've got the slash in the right spot
you've got everything where you expect
it to be if you're Canadian us it's like
the US 1:04 keyboard if you think about
an iso keyboard that's kind of UK your
arm like overseas for us and so their
layout is completely different so we
found the iso layout to be really
problematic here in canada right yeah
keys aren't where you want them to be
you got a push control function tab alt
backspace backspace exclamation point in
order to do an apostrophe like it's just
ridiculous it doesn't make any sense no
and so pine sixty-four heard the cry of
the Western world and said you know what
we're gonna bring out the u.s. keyboard
layout on our next iteration of the pine
book the pine book pro is going to be
available in both ISO and ANSI keyboard
layouts and this makes me very very
happy so let's get a look at the
unboxing here so you can see that my box
in fact says ANSI that is again the u.s.
keyboard layout you guys ready for this
let's get into the box let's take a look
our first look at the pine Book Pro ANSI
edition here we go
it's another box Wow look at a box
inside a box yes lefting nesting dolls
yes we've got okay you ready for the
next box there we go we go reddish cross
what is ready for something not a box oh
that would be really nice if it was not
a box maybe we could actually get a
hopper oh oh we've got some film and
paper yes we've got some packing foam
we've got a oh look at that a love
letter from pine sixty-four nice yeah my
wife will be jealous um telling us all
about it let's actually get a look at
the pine Book Pro this has got to be it
that doesn't look like a box to me I
feel like we need some epic music or
something oh yes there we go that's
better uh-oh nothing else in there okay
no other boxes empty now yep alright
I've got my power supply that came with
it and let's take a look here this is
now I ordered the us okay our supply so
this is just kind of all so that's on
and it's a it is 5 volt 3 amp and as you
can see it's barrel and not it's not USB
see like the like the Raspberry Pi for
alright here we go
look at that beautiful that's sleek that
is a magnesium alloy shell ok so this is
like a metal body and we've got the
micro SD we've got a headphone jack and
USB 2.0 right there on the side ok
flipping around to the other side we've
got the barrel input for the power we've
got USB 3 and USB type-c which can be
video output it can be power whatever
you like look at how thin stream is that
oh you're asking measure this you can
see it's just so thin and so it's like a
MacBook Air but this ok I want to tell
you this is 200 bucks that's amazing
there you are that's a bigger cup of
water on mine
there's the keyboard right there so
there's at the end look at the end the
/ki it's in the right spot
is also the app you can see the keyboard
layout is what you would expect here in
Canada the United States and that is the
pine Book Pro so looking at the
specifications it's a 2 gigahertz
rockchip rk3288 60 mp4 GPU it's got 4
gigs of ram a 1080p IPS panel even
though it's so sleek and so so thin it's
got that nice monitor on there it's got
it comes with a 64 gigabyte emmc which
is upgradable if you want to add a
little bit extra storage to that system
[Music]
