[Music]
welcome to the crypto corner and welcome
to the weekly crypto news and as usual
let's take a look into how the market
performed over the last seven days as
you can see we've got several projects
that gained over 15% the winner is wax
with almost 60% loop ring with 50% and
so on most of these projects are really
serious and good projects with huge
teams behind them which is great news
for the industry on the losing side the
only two projects about 15% one is hex
the other one is hedge trade which is
yeah it just shows how the market is
performing at the moment it's on the up
next headline is Bitcoin core released
the version zero point two there's one
feature in it that it's worth mentioning
which is the ASM AP and that is a
software part of the software that
prevents attacks by nation states and
this feature makes it possible to limit
the number of nodes that are connected
to any specific autonomous system so
previously a country a huge country
could attack the Bitcoin blockchain this
can now be prevented so that's also good
news next one is a small project that
everybody can use create your own token
so with this software now put a link
down below you can create your own token
so you you enter the token name the
token symbol the number of decimals you
want to have the maximum supply you
click on create token and voila you have
your own token created you can put that
token even on an exchange incredibly
liquidity so if you've got a great idea
this is a perfect tool that you can use
to put that idea into practice or if you
just want to have a present a birthday
present there you have got another idea
next one is pwc one of the largest
pounding firms they created a report
equipped a hedge fund report and I just
I will also put a link of that report in
the the description down below the
highlights here are from my point of
view that of those hedge funds that they
analyzed 97 percent hold Bitcoin
I wonder what what the other three are
doing but anyway 97 percent hold Bitcoin
followed by a theorem XRP litecoin
Bitcoin cash and yaws no other coins are
mentioned in that report that are worth
any substantial amount those hedge funds
mainly operating in the US and the UK
the two big financial hubs in the world
and they're based in the Cayman Islands
US and British Virgin Islands so low tax
havens the market is increased by 30
percent although that's still very small
it increased from 2 billion to 3 billion
this year I said it's still a small
market next one is d Phi which is my
favorite subject because that one define
in itself will start the next will run
in our market I'm pretty sure about that
if you look here that Lending Club which
is a big peer-to-peer lender here in the
US they originated 250 million dollar
loans in the first 5 years
well maker which is our peer-to-peer
lender originated 2.4 billion loans in
the last well 5 years if I look into
defined market cap which is like when
market cap but only for the td5 industry
you can see that we are running on 2.2
billion dollars market cap at the moment
maker Dow of course is the number 1 but
everything is green as you can see here
so and that also reflects on what I see
out there in the market I went to see a
few
forms defy form or finance forms the
yeah they had no idea on what is going
on in our market they don't understand
this year they don't know what the smart
contract is they don't understand defy
they always translate it back to what
they're accustomed to with a middle
person creating the market but don't
understand that this can be done much
much easier and by far more efficient
than what we've seen in the traditional
system so this one here the defy market
is one to take care on watch anyway
that's it for me from this week I hope
you're well and I wish you the best and
thank you very much for watching and see
you next week hopefully thank you thank
you Robert just a reminder to those of
you who are watching at home we are not
providing financial advice here on the
show we're just simply giving you the
facts about the cryptocurrency market
and leaving the decisions up to you just
be mindful cryptocurrency is an
ever-changing market it's always
volatile and we suggest that you only
invest what you can afford to lose
you
