we've got the kks be 13-inch screen
stand are you folks ready for this I'm
really excited about this I mean I've
seen 7 inch screens I've seen three and
a half inch screens 13 inches
what okay look at the size of the do you
see the Raspberry Pi there on the
left-hand side huh compare that to the
size of this box okay all right what do
we got here okay we've got some
instructions this is basic assembly
looks pretty simple we'll refer to that
in just a couple of moments and there it
is that's what we get from ksb we've got
the stand itself which we're gonna get a
look at looks nice as always with cake
ASB I'm always impressed with them
everything is like a lot of their stuff
is made of stainless like of Steel it's
good solid stuff it's not like a plastic
stand that is steel my friends and then
we've got the case itself this is a
metal case for the Raspberry Pi and of
course that would fit any compatible SBC
like a say an Isuzu tinker board for
example if you want a little more power
we've got a couple of bits in there
looks like some standoffs and some
screws okay so let's get the case out
here Sasha oh right that's all there is
to it
yeah so let's say let's get a look at
the instructions and see what I actually
have to do now first step is I need the
actual screen and this skirt this is the
butt as the first box I held up here
tonight and it's so big that I actually
have to clear some space here on the
desk look at the size of that compared
to the Raspberry Pi my goodness I'm
gonna have to actually clear some space
here all right ladies and gentlemen Oh
all right there we have it all right
we've got some basic instructions here
in particular with the Raspberry Pi
there are some things that we're gonna
have to add to the config we'll look at
that in just a couple of minutes but
hold on to that we've got a power supply
got a barrel connector there and
there you go twelve volts thousand
milliamps nice okay set that aside we've
got a USB cable this is actually believe
it or not this is also a touchscreen so
we're gonna need that USB cable to
operate the the touch and we've got a
nice little short HDMI cable to connect
the PI end we've got a universal
connector just in case you're not here
in Canada or the u.s. there is the
screen look at that Wow okay so think
about this for a second this is a
Raspberry Pi three case / screen we've
got the connectors on the back to
actually mount it to 13.3 inch and for
those of you wondering this is 1080p
it's got a film there which we're going
to remove in just a couple of moments
what we'll leave it on there for a
moment just a protective film yeah well
alright then on its face mmm-hmm okay so
step one let's see here we've got to put
these little plastic little risers on to
the back of the screen here so dig
through our trusty little bag of goodies
there we are one and two some exciting
TV right there yeah yeah through the
magic of television I can speed things
up which is a beautiful thing for those
of you watching at home alright what
else have I got
okay so step two let's see what's next
alright we've got that we've got the kit
the stand need to put that here and I'm
actually going to need to screw the case
into the stand so I'm gonna need these
little metal risers everything's just
pictures for the instructions but I
guess the visual of the video tonight
will help as well then I'm gonna put
some these screws in here if I can get
all of them
there's one and where the other one go
oh there it is on my screwdriver okay so
now flip this over and we're gonna put
these metal little riser type washers on
there they're a little thicker than the
standard washer and now put that on to
the underside of the stand so this is
not gonna go on the face side keep in
mind the monitor is gonna go on that
side but just like that a couple of
couple of nuts to hold it on there we go
we can speed things up for you yeah get
those tightened up nothing too difficult
here Sasha hmm so very easy peasy as
simple as that and that's the cake ASB
design and and they make some fantastic
high-end stands so if you're looking at
cake ASB versus competition keep in mind
what you're seeing here today this is a
nice steel stand and we're gonna pop
that raspberry pie in there now that
we've got that mounted on the back it's
just gonna just slide right in there as
is the case with cake ASB everything is
perfectly molded and ready to go and now
I need I've I need some little risers
here these don't look like the ones
though these are a little bit too thick
yeah they definitely that's not the one
that's gonna fit in there so looking at
my bag of tricks hmm what else have I
got here let's see that's not gonna work
mmm not gonna just screw it directly and
I need to have some kind of standoffs
there aha bag number two these ones look
a little more promising yes much finer
look at that okay so get the Raspberry
Pi in there now according to the
instructions I just need to put these
standoffs in the bottom
right here and while speed this up just
because you know screwing the sin by
hand is not all that exciting for you to
watch there you go
no tools needed I guess I well I
shouldn't say that
I do need a Phillips screwdriver to
screw in the final screws but a lot of
this stuff is just done by hand
there you go let's get that in there
nice and tight nice and snug for those
of you looking for the screen they are
at cap five dot TV slash PI and there
you go so those two standoffs are
holding the Raspberry Pi three in place
and now I'm just gonna snap this on here
k KS B cases are traditionally very well
fitted and everything's just gonna snap
together if yes there you go snap it in
there perfect and you can just feel it
go right into its place and everything
is all well aligned they're so eager ab
a--
in discord its cap 5tb /pi to see any of
the raspberry pi peripherals that we
review here on category five TV and of
course this case and the screen is is
there as well if you're watching live it
will take about 24 hours before you'll
see that there now I'm just lining up
these long screws do you see that
through the air vent I just got to kind
of make sure that gets through the hole
and screw that in with this allen key
that has been provided to easy this is
perfect perfect indeed Sasha I could do
this with one hand tied behind my back
there we go
this would make a fantastic kiosk I
gotta say yeah
I gotta put these back on cuz I've
knocked them off I don't know why that
was step one it could have been whatever
this is now there we go okay so now line
all those up
with the screw holes for the back plate
there and we're gonna put this all
together there you go so this is just
gonna mount right onto the back of that
13.3 inch screen remember this is 1080p
folks I want to check these risers that
are that's our seemingly extra they
don't seem to be for anything I'm not
sure what they're for maybe I could I
could elevate those plastic pieces but
it doesn't seem necessary so I won't use
them today cuz the extra bits it's like
when you buy something from Ikea and
you've got a couple of extra screws left
over you know what they're just a bonus
bonus bonus bits there you go 16k you
think do you do do you there uber ABBA
I know this is 1080p realistically sony
has been working on some attending some
16k technology but it's gonna be a while
before we see it on a Raspberry Pi case
alright a quick side step from the live
show because after the show
I've noticed that the screws here that
are holding the case like the stand
itself to the monitor are actually
touching the back of the screen and so I
realized I think that might be what
these extra standoffs are for so for the
sake of accuracy and just because you
may want to do this right the first time
let's give that a try
and again I've sped this up just for the
sake of good TV
I don't know that these standoffs are
going to make like it doesn't look like
it's causing any damage on the back of
the screen but I figure hey if that's
what the manufacturer has included them
for then we definitely want to use them
now okay so the reason that these didn't
fit when I was doing this live is
because I had the plastic washers on the
other side of these it looks like this
actually goes the other way around so
it's like maybe you can use a standoff
or a washer but this is definitely going
to solve the fact that it's touching the
screw is touching the screen and they do
fit as long as you don't have the washer
there so I think just step one was not
very clear in the picture you couldn't
see those standoffs under the plastic so
I think step one is actually showing
these standoffs with those plastic
washers on top but of course in the
picture you can only see this the
plastic washers you can't actually see
the standoffs just like right now so now
you have it
[Music]
all right there we go there's the
difference so again I don't know that
the screws going directly into this was
going to cause any issue the standoffs
are also very very close to touching the
back of the monitor I think it just
avoids screwing into the the monitor
itself accidentally pushing on the back
and now let's pick it up where we left
off all right let's grab that short
little HDMI cable and plug that into the
Raspberry Pi there you go and it's going
to come around the side check this out
we've got all these inputs on the side
here we've got HDMI I see well let's
let's get a better look here so straight
into the HDMI there for the for the
Raspberry Pi but we've also got HP I'm
not sure that looks like an audio
adapter VGA HDMI touch and DC so the DC
adapter we know is provided but we want
to connect that touch as well I'm
actually a little pleasantly surprised
if you will a little shocked that this
has multi-touch built-in because it's
you know you're just expecting a really
nice little screen but to have that
multi-touch as well so touch just means
that you wouldn't need a keyboard at all
we don't need a mouse and I suppose if
you wanted to you could use an on-screen
keyboard but for kiosk or just for
general use if you want to put L cars on
there then there you go but doesn't that
look beautiful just stunning so you've
got a couple cables sticking out of the
side there but that's nothing to be
concerned about I mean it looks really
good really clean and the final thing
the final thing
ashle yes the final thing as I shimmy on
over here the final thing that we need
to do is configure this to work with the
screen so you noticed on the
instructions that I pulled out of the
box there there were there was a little
bit of information about what I need to
do a little extra for Raspberry Pi I
mentioned that it has multi-touch so
keep in mind that I believe for
Raspberry Pi it's single touch but if
you have it connected to a computer say
a Windows 10
machine or something like that then
you've got multi-touch as well okay so
it's it's not just a Raspberry Pi screen
you can connect this to other devices as
well but of course with the ksb
components it's it's like the perfect
raspberry PI's system so I just want to
bring it up on my screen here I've got
the the SD card plugged into my laptop
and with that alright on Windows 10 I
can see the config dot txt file so with
this I want to just scroll right to the
end of this file and add those lines I'm
just going to type those right in then
we'll call this the beautiful KK SB 13
inch screen case from cat 5 TV slash PI
so I have no idea what these things do
it's just I'm following the directions
I'm doing what I'm told
Mac's USB current equals one HDMI group
equals two HDMI mode equals 82 HDMI CVT
1920 1080 66000 I presume that means
1080p 60 frames per second and there we
go so it'll take a split second to boot
that thing up once it's up will be will
be back and will actually show you what
this system looks like on screen this is
the K KSP 13.3 inch Raspberry Pi case
screen multi-touch screen it's it's
super cool beautiful I can't wait to put
this up we'll see it after this quick
little break cigarette
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and we are looking at the
kick-ass B 13.3 inch Raspberry Pi
multi-touch screen case somebody was
saying in - yeah Marsh man said those
numbers will set resolution and
over/under scan so in the image fits
over and under scan so if you've got
like a border around the screen for
example then you can adjust that okay
okay
in this case I guess because of the
instructions saying zero zero zero then
you don't have I guess maybe no overscan
mm-hmm
let's find out should we get read over
to it yeah
find the button and there we go Beauty
Tom I touch the screen and that came to
life yay Sasha do you want to walk over
there and and you can actually well
Vanna White this sash is gonna just jump
right over there and and BR our Vanna
okay so first of all we've got some kind
of rippling going on do you want to peel
off the now okay I want to just say this
is not a Samsung Galaxy fold so it's a
yeah it's safe to peel off the polymer
let's take a look around so this is so
thirteen point three inches how can we
let give you some kind of what that's
not really a good I've nothing but a
self a smartphone does that help a big
smart phone that's a pretty big
smartphone this is the the f1 the poco
phone f1 so you know comparison wise
hand there's your hand okay so how is
the touch Sasha because we haven't had
to do and I know that they can't really
see you can I play around a little bit I
think it would be best if you do oh we
haven't done any calibration all we've
done is booted up raspbian and this is
just raspbian linux re games can you go
to games yeah Python games I don't know
I don't know this is just a vanilla wow
that's a really fun game the guys
what's the game I'm looking and it looks
like it's I mean that's a really fine
fine resolution there you go but I
opened a game oh there you go
here we go she's like yeah I did it by
accident but it works Oh how's that how
is the calibration so it's working it's
good so when you touch stuff is it yeah
oh I heard something
oh yeah it's making some noises so the
screen also has built-in speakers coming
off the HDMI you guys hear that from my
mic you'd hear it more if I was if I was
playing five minutes - a winner there we
go very nice okay what else can you do
so this this is raspy Inanna
on the KSP 13-inch screen okay so let's
see we have office so LibreOffice yeah
let's see let's try and open one of
these this is great dude there's a
keyboard at your feet if you care to
grab a keyboard and then let's just
there yes unplug it you can I was just
on the charger that's why it's at your
feet ah there's a power switch right
there okay is it is it already oh yeah
look at that
so is it so that's quick yeah just move
your keyboard down so that we get the
screen and focus there there we go
so touch wise good everything works like
a by touch here yeah oh yeah this is
great
I want this no don't Wow
do you see the house that was like a
little time regardless of the speed of
the Raspberry Pi 3 the fact that she was
able to touch that little X in the top
right and we didn't have to do any
calibration yeah that is astonishing
ultra intuitive Wow
I love this size-wise Sasha how does it
feel feels great can we like how can I
like if I had a laptop or like I could
pull my laptop out and show you size
comparison wise yeah does that help at
all like this is approximately a little
bit smaller than my laptop screen which
is covered in dust this is the perfect
size really oh I don't want to do
shutdown hex get out of there I wasn't
watching what did he do yeah yes just
pressing buttons or some buttons what I
do best
Internet chromium web browser or that's
not what I picked
I picked claws mail cancel okay Internet
Oh sometimes if you hit it with your
knuckle it doesn't work so this is in
full resolution 1080p I might even want
to put in like 720p just to make it just
so that it's not so tiny em hmm but so
if you go to like I mean this is just
web browser on on raspbian no big deal
but so there you have it I mean there's
the KSP case
can we just I'm gonna if you want to
come back around Sasha I'm just gonna
bring this back up and let's actually
get a look at it as far as how this
looks
there you go so this is a little bit of
a you know a different view for you but
that's just absolutely awesome and
there's the Raspberry Pi sitting on the
back nice and solid and you saw Sasha
they're kind of operating things for us
I think just right there is the perfect
spot for it if I don't knock everything
over so the KSP 13.3 inch Raspberry Pi
screen case is available at cat5 TV /pi
now these are brand new
and so stock is like is coming about
we're starting to see it in America and
it certainly it's available
internationally as well through their
website you can get to their website by
going to our website category five dot
TV clicking on support the show and then
you'll see partner links and in the
partner links you'll see ksb both
international and US but just a quick
way to find this particular device this
ring the screen and the case it's
available at cap five dot TV slash PI
I'm really really excited about this
because like there's never really been
this kind of kiosk case ready and
available to the consumer market you see
them sometimes like in in businesses and
things and you know that they pay so
much for those things but this is the
perfect little kiosk for like sitting at
your front desk or even just for your
personal use for your kitchen counter
holy cow yeah you imagine recipes it
could help me cook oh my gosh this is
perfect
next step is I got an experiment with
the on-screen keyboard getting that
configured because I knew that would be
the next the next best thing is actually
using the on-screen keyboard to be able
to control it yes it's a full Linux
computer it's not a tablet you're not
limited to like iOS or something like
that right this is a full debian-based
computer so whether it be internet
surfing or installing apps or whatever
you want to do it's all available to you
it's raspbian it is just a Raspberry Pi
three sitting on the back of it so could
you put retropie on that and then like
yes play I it would be extreme overkill
in some ways because you wouldn't really
have a use for the touchscreen but you
could do it and it would become like a
portable screen man your retropie
although that's it I kind of laugh about
that suggestion because you know
retropie on a touchscreen is overkill
but remember retropie raspbian all the
different distros that you can put on a
Raspberry Pi are on an SD card right so
you can safely shut it down pull the SD
card for raspy
put in your gaming card for retropie
beat it up use it for gaming right and
then unplug that and plug back in the
other one and you can just keep swapping
back and forth whatever you want to do
so if you want to take it to the cottage
and use that as a screen for watching
movies and playing video games you can
and then when you bring it home you can
put it back into recipe mode for the
kitchen right how cool is that
I love it cat 5 TV /pi to pick one of
those up
[Applause]
