covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias Google's area 120 team an
internal incubator that creates
experimental apps and services has
launched keen a would-be Pinterest rival
that draws on the search giant's machine
learning expertise to curate topics
available on the web at state keen calm
and on Android co-founder CJ Adams says
keen aims to be an alternative to
mindlessly browsing online feeds Adam
writes in a blog post on keen you say
what you want to spend more time on and
then create content from the web and
people you trust to help make that
happen you make a keen which can be
about any topic whether it's baking
delicious bread at home getting into
birding or researching typography keen
lets you curate the content you love
share your collection with others and
find new content based on what you have
saved Pinterest has already captured the
Hobby focused side of this market with
its pin board style visual design two
characteristics that Keane is trying to
imitate but keen has Google's X
expertise in machine learning which Adam
says will surface helpful content
related to your interests Google has
never been able to break into the social
space a venue of online activity that
generates scads of lucrative data for
targeting ads a Pinterest style social
network would really allow it to hone in
on users interests and gather this
information and it does seem that data
collected by Keene is being collated
with everything else Google knows about
users you log into Keene using your
Google account and clicking on the sites
privacy link just points you to the
Google wide privacy policy it's
interesting to see Google push it's
machine learning systems into more
varied applications especially those
that seem like they're trying to foster
users interest in rewarding hobbies
rather than algorithms that drive people
to greater engagement without caring
what it is they're actually engaging
with will you give key in a try are your
interest such that you don't mind Google
knowing what you're into
below if you're watching online or hop
on to our website to post your thoughts
[Music]
