all this Robbie just in time just in
time just in time over a coffee break
good day good afternoon good evening so
just getting ready to do the intro and I
thought no he'll show up just in the
last minute well 8th of May well who
does okay who has terrible audio you do
can you hear me no but the audio quality
is terrible it sounds like a bad phone
why do I not agree booze machine ok I
don't know if you guys caught that it is
May 8th for the reason on demand
welcome hello with that good moment I
touch any of I heard enough I didn't
catch any of that eat Robi I'm not sure
whether it's ooh more mighty happy but
yes it's not wonderful for me either do
you think we're we're having one of
those zoom days where zoom does not does
not function correctly not the idea
I see outage I think that's exactly
where we're going
we're having one of those off days using
sound to happen after so much and I'm
not a right kid
Robby no no this is this coffee break
number 49 49 so if we break number 49
but is it really I thought you're only
gonna go 40 days Robby I'm here
yay I knew the pandemic was gonna go
this long it's ridiculous this is a
really major delay I've never seen them
do this before
this is amazing it's like it's gotta be
15 seconds that bad I'm waiting yeah
okay my board Wow Thank You EE my Jade
unstable gonna be a really legend
everybody it's Friday
everybody's like trying to give their
resume meetings everybody's milking the
internet for all it's worth right now so
I think we're gonna have to talk one of
the time guys when when there's such a
delay it's not going to be possible to
talk over one another your party did not
arrive vp9 okay that's a shame no they
did not but I just met they may arrive
this afternoon we'll see what happens
okay I heard from the contractor
yesterday and I wrote him back today
sounds like he'll be available on
Tuesday to come and get started on some
things so that's really cool good news
are you this is unreal Wow I'm guessing
everybody yeah I'm guessing everybody
fucked stuck they sum up when they heard
it so I heard it first and then so be
heard at about five seconds later oh
yeah
that's amazing
see when I speak it takes probably 15
seconds for anyone to reply so I think
that there's like this massive delay I
think
you always maybe one frame every two
seconds no way everyone else is fine
it's your video is about and it's let me
try reconnecting them yeah yeah okay but
I but I think it might be a crop zoom
but sure try that see what happens
because so blue even your video is jump
into me because you're on one side of
the screen for one a second ago and then
your you looked over to the other side
to take it by the idea sandwich and then
you lift back in the next frame back to
where you were your your frame it is is
that any better I think we have now I
think we have to Robbie here's what I'm
gonna do I'm gonna I'm gonna count down
from three and then I want you to reply
and I'm gonna count how long the delay
is here so from the moment I hit zero
okay well as soon as I hit zero just say
okay zero and then I'll mark it so three
two one zero
I didn't hear bp9 oh my god really
I should do right when you said you
wrote really i got ron was almost
instantaneously heater was at four
seconds and I didn't hear bp9 respond
and so be responded okay
three seconds after rugged is that wild
please visit leaf there's a very so not
only is there a delay today on them but
it varies from person to person so Ron
and I seem to be pretty real-time and
the rest of the rest of user like
between 4 and 10 seconds Wow
so that's fun
be a really weird coffee break that's
why I want to see if I can put my hand
up so that it'll be my turn to speak see
if I can figure it there we go you used
to be able to put your hand up but I
cannot then I've been working on not
cleaning this up back here your Ethernet
is that your home Ethernet yeah that's
that's my networks life entertainment
center oh wow and this is the plant this
is that looks like a maze this is the
plan or the for the new rack and I like
the new rack better than the old one
yeah and so this is the new rack put
together without any parts in it right
now unite will do and that's going in
where that homemade wooden rack is going
and I'm redoing that all the cable
management of course yeah Wow and it
looks like this two pictures of the same
of the same corner are really high but
just replying in foreign tangles yeah at
first I thought it was the same picture
yeah this is this was from the front and
this is from the top down as on the left
mm-hmm you got a lot of sorting to do my
friend it's still yeah no matter what
angle if you look at it yeah it's uh
it's it's empty right now except for the
cables and I'm right yeah I'm working on
on redoing the whole infrastructure
there - oh man
the better man is the cables I mean you
can see i bundled all the all the
ethernet cables nice and then over the
years just kept on adding is that a
switch on the floor just give you some
more jack see ya the switch is mounted
on the side of the wooden panel right
now no I see oh the switch is on the fly
either switch that's actually got a
floor that's that's a shelf that's 30
inches high okay wowzers so what's the
timeline maybe another two weeks yeah
you know that one the one thing about
absolutely was the studio the one thing
about having to move the studio was just
that I
it forced my hand to rip all the wiring
out and start over so it was kind of
nice so now I can reorganize things this
is how I started out oh yeah with no rat
and I'll rack in just a couple couple
pieces and and you're gonna move that
printer somewhere else wrong
pranked ya that printers is the one I
showed the other day it's actually on
what I call a skateboard underneath my
desk right here right mm-hm
yeah that I
I first thought that printer would work
there yeah yeah and ended up not being
wide enough for both the equipment and
the printer and it and so the apprentice
I don't usually work on preachers don't
usually work on on on network closets
you know no one we have to put them
somewhere plenty of Spicer random
speaking Lloyd paper and yeah true
enough yeah I wanted to I want to have
it centrally located for the kids now
the kids are all moved out so it doesn't
need to be centrally located anymore so
where's the server rack gonna go is it
gonna go enjoy it's fun right there
let's see if I can find another picture
that'll be stellar man I'd love to have
a server rack at home I have just last
year I put in just like an industrial
shelf which helped things but having a
rack would be amazing and the ones I've
and there was a fight that they are too
tall for my basement basement so from
here you can kind of see the shelf
that's looking
that's looking into it's looking into
the closet from so it's the closet is
behind the TV cool and I have passed
through pass through behind my house it
all right all my
server as a wreck from my job three
three jobs ago but I couldn't find a
space for it I couldn't find it we
pledged it oh I wish I I wish I'd gotten
that hurt ah probably gone by now
I have been through similar kind of
things where if I hoard stuff I I'm
mister what she said Robbie but yeah I
buy old stuff already too much I don't
need to be you know hoarding big big old
wrecks to go in the basement yeah my my
LA or may not fill in right I don't
think I hoard things so much as like I
set things aside thinking I'll need them
and then I find that I don't need them
so then I send them to the thrift store
or sometimes II waste and you know one
thing comes to mind where I had an old
server that was a home made for you
rackmount server with rails and
everything and it sat in my garage for
two or three years just on the floor
just like no use for it
and finally I'm like well I'm not going
to have use for it and ie wasted it and
now I wish I had a for you server
chassis like that would be amazing I
just put an i-9 and there something
there an i7 and turn it into a little
storage server with no fan
but you might remember that you might
remember that Cape Road that I showed
off of the a while ago that had the SD
card reader in it to emulate the floppy
disk drives you know if I if I had not
held on to the various cables and things
that I had needed from pcs back in the
80s and 90s you know the floppy drive
cable if I have not been able to if I
had not held on to those I would not
have been able to wire that thing into
place so I mean holding onto stuff on
the hope that you might need it is
useful for a techie
because you never know when you're gonna
need it and you just prove that point
and I'm certainly bring that point over
and over so I don't hear that that I did
I hold on to stuff and they call me your
order if you want to but I don't know
the danger of throwing things that
they're a little short while after you
the things you sometimes end up that you
need just the thing you use do away yep
that's exactly right that's why I don't
throw things away myself right now as
well Peters trying to get a word in this
delay is a nightmare
oh my goodness okay but what might be
closed up a while old I know I need
somewhere where you can't find it when
she went to body dump jobs and slowed up
away with boom how many times have I
said to my wife
Oh where's that where's this this and
this and I described it though I gave
that thrift store the second-hand store
someone came in with a few boxes of
something and then three hours later the
husband they came and fished
that she was away oh no oh do you guys
know karl Pilkington yes yes yeah he did
it he did it so yeah yeah yeah it either
broad is was one of his shows but he did
one just recently like this last year or
something
and and it's horrible it's so it's
depressing Lee
dark humor and his he was tidying up his
mom's place and he came across a picture
that had his uncle in blackface and he
twisted it and so the thrift store of
course was brutally offended and so they
smashed it or whatever and then and then
he found out that that was the only
picture that they had of his uncle so
the only picture that they had who got
thrifted of course because he's in
blackface they destroyed it
oh my gosh that just came to mind
so that was my solo moment up I reminds
me of a video I saw I was gonna say the
same thing that's just what somebody
would do poking around my systems and I
needed to add another a few more in my
computer yeah and this guy just a tray
of RAM yeah and he had the two left and
then he gave the the books so it's quite
useful yeah it could be better need me
well I just keep on my read my death in
there that delay oh yeah I know
so big can you mail that thing of the
one would you have to take the remote
you'll stay out of it - to use the
middle no this is just a bookstore when
they buy for sale there by Union in huge
loads and they have this anyway just
plastic and it's just housing what for
transport very nice very useful - well
they haven't seen it they told you I was
given to mark where I'll go we think the
I did yawns in 1930 to 1945 you know it
still works
he still works well for the 50-foot job
when my friend dropped it about how one
day they stuck with our diet it works
aboard Johnny's one and I couldn't get
the page right on I bought some copies
well maybe just a bit and it was my
world up to a new walk this would put
him right together
he's very quite vicious and at the end
all a teammate to look for and me a page
right on the life by Johnny when
directed well my friends or AJ's been
paid for a life on a life by but I might
the other children on I had a proposing
a musical a youtube or something patron
the world
I know is only falls away buckle Arizona
because he does though they died using
more books until ability tell award each
other electrolytes our doc Connors on it
you know believer Gilroy we knew bitch
the major sixteen mill across
facing them about a Jew neurology at the
page on it
can you still get no no worse means no
ground no grounding wire Eugene I think
you gon get the page but I put the bow
from a well-known place in England and
and I can't survive and tried to put a
grind up my commentary' they JM network
well well then I met have eggs old Leon
bitch they don't make things like they
used to my guys I think that effect but
they about puja 56 you know that's a
young any how we have in the world of
there but the work manufacture things to
actually last one you're right was a
long time ago
now they make things to last just beyond
the man dearly love to it they fool to
bitches I presume it shameful to bitch
but you do you just have the warranty
and add a day and that's that's how long
it's true light bulbs in a cold a
meeting with the three or four their
main light bulb manufacturers in the
night intense yes all right and they all
agreed to make bulbs a lot not last any
longer than a thousand hours
at that time and the bolts that you
already could buy at the time they could
last maybe ten thousand hours and they
all agree to two limited hours and now
they are making at the same company or
making a bulbs which lasts maybe thirty
thirty years and the chief executive who
made that decision is there is the
grandson of the same executive who made
this is every every single light bulb
that I've ever bought though that said
last 30 years
laughs a year if you read the packaging
it says that 30 years means if you use
it for this many hours per day then your
hours a year it'll last 30 years when
you use it for four hours a year yeah
have you found LED light bulbs so
they're young have they been pretty
long-lived I've had LED light bulbs die
as well yeah so we're in Ruggiano the
CFLs were meant to last a long time and
I had led me makes any tend to focus on
the LED bulb and it's my best product I
know about bending it over to quality as
well and that's what I got lovers which
I need to thank you for Annette trying
to properly give I'm glad to cry
expecting from them from mr. Blahous
I mean maybe that's the interesting
thing is like if you had a like vp9 if
you had a series circuit that was like a
five or twelve volt
circuit then you could power the LED
bulbs and then maybe you could say you
could claim that they'd last a lot
longer like 30 years or something but I
think what happens is like the bulbs
that you screw in they're running on 110
here or 240 overseas so they have to
have a transformer so the bulb is that
they're gonna last as long as the
transformer lat divers are dreadful we
will be there well in this week's bet
that's right
in other words that they devote 92
supplies three total fabricators an
indent referred in TRAI I think she
transformed a tantrum boom down to five
ultra weather yeah like five or 12
usually I think with the LEDs maybe
that's it you need a circuit that is 12
volt and then you're going to get the
lifespan out of a baby the only ones
I've ever the only ones I've used are
the kind that you screw in to replace
and like a standard light bulb and they
don't they don't last forever that's for
your bigshot the this move is to take
the schools a picture there is the
insides ass and that's what goes rolling
them those ages that was the last budget
that was on you but I drew the picture
but just little bit yes where is would
they want to bitch one day well gents
until tomorrow
have a wonderful afternoon I will see
you again at coffee break tomorrow
hopefully we won't have doom acting so
silly
yeah it looks like it improved like I
had lighter in the meeting so I'm
sensing that - it starts to seem a bit
more real time now but that was unreal
nice to see you
take care thanks Robbie appreciate it
bye
you
