welcome to the coffee break yeah hello
everyone
good morning I'm I'll get well it's
gonna be hard for me today cuz I've just
got my phone so I won't be able to tell
everyone who's here map I learned I can
swipe so I can say hi to soul boo and
Peter and vp9 Lance man 63 and marsh man
I think someone said once that if you
swipe all the way to one of the sides
you will get a grid of Oh everyone of
everyone really I've only been able to
get I can only get four up yeah not on
the phone I think we've with the phone
you only get to see four at a time so
three of you unfortunately are cut off I
feel like I've earned my coffee break
today how did I deserve it just that I
need it yesterday was beautiful here I
mentioned I was hoping to take the
family to like a hike or something so we
did go for a drive it was sunny and like
10 degrees see out and found we drove
out if you want to bring up a Google map
it's a little community called mini sing
and out there there's the old trails
that I guess they used for like bringing
things in on the old rail trails and
everything and they've converted at all
to boardwalks and hiking trails so we
looked for a place where there weren't
too many cars so we we knew that it was
going to be fine for social distancing
and sure enough just drove because
there's so many trails around there you
just find trail entrances all over the
place so we just kind of scoot into the
back roads and found an entrance where
there were like three three other cars
and you know we basically just saw a few
people on the path and just stepped
aside to let them by it was really
really nice
and I got it spring water spring water
golf course temporarily closed yeah well
yeah yeah it's like snow Valley area if
you want to look for it look for Fort
Willow is the name of the fort which is
closed there's like tape and everything
that you're not allowed to enter the
fort but all the trails that go it's
called the nine mile portage
recreational trail and it it is just you
find an entrance and you can just walk
as long as you want
it's nine miles long I suppose I mean if
the name means anything for the portage
that does that not mean that you would
take your watercraft at the head of the
lake or river off one end and actually
well I put it up over and carry it I
think way back I mean that's that's the
that's what the fort is the fort willow
is I think where they used to bring in
stuff during war times and so that was
like a I don't know if it was a barracks
or we couldn't we couldn't actually go
into the fort so but but we got to enjoy
the trails but I believe the trails used
to be rail trails and so the portage was
bringing things in from the water into
the fort I think okay okay so we're
talking like 1800s Early 1900s yeah I'm
thinking in terms of folks who are
kayaking or canoeing or so like that
they get to a point on the river or the
creek or whatever that they can't go any
further they have to get out of the
water and carry their watercraft on
their shoulders that is what I
understand a portage to mean but yeah
that makes sense
so in this context I guess it's the name
would come from what what its original
intention was and what its original use
was yeah forged by the beautiful trails
well yeah 1812 yeah beautiful trails
like well maintained and clean and and
kind of feels like you're out in the
middle of nowhere and there's nobody
around so so that was good I would I
need more of that though right now guys
I think I saw you
not too long ago my son was one who took
the picture yeah I posted a picture on
Twitter of me and my family so we're
we're walking on the trail and there's
this really steep incline that we were
gonna walk up like the trail goes up
this incline and I'm like okay hold on
kids and I have a kickstand on the back
of my phone so I I kick standed it on
the hill so it's like perfectly aligned
and it's actually a pretty good shot of
the families it's not really the time
when you'd stop a passerby and be like
hey can you take the picture for me I
have a camera I still have it anymore
but it's a 35 millimeter film camera and
I still have a bunch of 35 millimeter
films that somehow I need to transfer it
to CB I don't know how I'm going to I'm
going to finish that but the camera has
it as part of its body a small remote
control that you can lift there that's
an infrared remote control you can sit
the thing on a stump frame the photo you
know set yourself up in shot and they
push the button on the on the remote
control is off the picture I love that I
wish my DSLR is like my nikon d50 100
doesn't come with a remote but you can
just buy any off-brand infrared remote
and it supports it so you can point and
click
but I'm sorry go ahead
okay I was just gonna say like these
days I don't carry a DSLR with me all
the time
it's just too much stuff because the
poco phone f1 has such a good camera
just like that's what I end up taking
pictures with so I just got to take a
picture every two seconds
a Samsung Note 9 has an S Pen that acts
as a remote for the camera nice I think
that's a great thing I mean but the
cameras on my phones work great
yeah I have a poker phone but not an f1
I also have a Samsung phone but yes so
but I'm not going to carry something
that bulky
I used to carry stuff like that all the
time
ya could always spot if we could play
spot the tourist it's the same sorry
there's like that's away go ahead vp9
just I was just gonna say for
spontaneous use the phone is a far
better choice and you just ya put up
with that not so good resolution but
honestly all my all my cameras all my
digital cameras but they're not gonna be
4 megapixels they're gonna be less than
that so my cat my phone me the cameras
in my phone are better than any old
digital camera that I've got sorry my
dslr's take beautiful pictures but I
just you know you don't always have it
with you but having a decent phone
camera in my pocket is really really
nice because of that spontaneity being
able to shoot a picture without having
to carry anything with you what I
installed though is a program called
what is it called oh no I'm gonna I wish
I could bring it up it's like open kamla
or something like that just an Android
app but it has you can actually set so
what I did is I set it to take a picture
open shot thank you no open shot is an
editor know when shot is a an editor
inna truck yeah I'm gonna try to I'm I
am I still here
yes yeah we can't see hey we're gonna
hear you that's fine I'm gonna click on
this oh okay that's fine I just want to
see what the name of the app is that's
all let's see the argument for having a
bigger and the camera like the one that
I showed off he said when you need to
shoot me in that that is far away and
modern phones have a zoom capability but
that is a digital zoom so you get a less
just behind yeah for sure okay so it is
guys sorry it is called open camera so
with with open camera this app I was so
glad to find it so I set it to take a
picture every two seconds and I set it
to take ten pictures so it would take
picture picture picture like that only
ten times and but you can scroll through
like the tip the reason that I mention
it just because it's free it's like they
call it open camera I don't know if that
means it's open source or what but the
feature set in it is like commercial
stuff like so so you can set one two
three four five 10-second intervals
whatever you want however many pictures
you want or if you want it just to keep
snapping them until you stop it and
it'll just keep taking them over and
over and over again so so the biggest
thing with that is you get you know I
get ten pictures and I get to choose the
best one of those ten pictures cool so
and just throw away the rear strut yeah
yeah or sometimes what I'll even do with
that is I'll get those ten pictures and
my eyes are closed because I blinked in
that moment but everyone else has got a
perfect smile so then I'll take the next
picture where I've got a good smile and
I'll take it take it in the GIMP and
I'll take me out of that picture and put
me over top of the picture of it and
it's a perfect picture so you get
everybody with a good smile five or six
it was we had this big debate they were
extending they were changing the law one
of the petitioner one of the political
parties had a discussion in it was the
smallest political party in in a
parliament but the talk was so populated
that they borrowed the groom of the
biggest party in in the parliament and I
am
one of the speakers he had a video that
he was playing to illustrate what you
could do with the more than computing
and short minutes long about 747 landing
on the day on the big highway in the
around la it was a gym but yet it was
out of fuel and you saw it landing on
the highway and the listeners in the
audience if they hadn't a guess how many
millions they used to do that they used
the whole thing just tossing of the road
and so on everything cost $1,200 and
everything was done by do anything and
the road was never closed off and the
plane never flew they were visiting one
of the new guy at LAX Airport so they
very good they got permission to come
and let you take photos all around the
plane for them from the outside and they
cut everything to get there and the
plane landed and a one car didn't get
those clothes used they edited it looked
like at the depth so modern technology
and then taking a photo you can take out
everything so they used a hold a camera
standing overlooking the highway and
over the course of the day and they had
an image of all the elements of the run
with no cost so thank you something out
of a picture is well there's a there is
a little-known fact from
way that I'm not sure many people know
but the interstate system here in the
United States has many straight sections
of Interstate something like at least 2
miles long which is ten thousand four
hundred and whatever it is feet and the
reason for that is to allow that this
was even better no no the interstate
systems are relatively recent like the
60s or 70s but it allows for emergency
landing of military craft and for and
for commercial airlines in need this Air
Force they have a database of all roads
of any condition of the length and so in
case over war they have the entire
county road network to use as an airport
listen this is not every single piece of
road but certainly my understanding is
it's the interstates but yes yes as a
matter of fact as a matter of fact I
think it was last week or the week
before I saw a video on Facebook of a
light plane landing on an expressway
yeah emergency landing that does happen
as well it was weird because the plane
landed pulled over to the right and then
the cars just kept going home for me
because I not that particular one so
that's where bp9 was that day yeah
emergency landing an airplane I mean
I've done plenty of emergency landings
you
to practice that when you whenever you
do your buying your flight review and
whenever you whenever you're getting a
certification or anything like that but
that's all that's all part of the part
of the practice but really don't land on
roads oh yeah craziest one I saw
recently as a video of a like an air
show or something where the this little
old plane shot up into the air to do I
don't know some kind of loop or
something and one of its wings flew off
and he and he landed it I saw a stunt
plane well I didn't see it I started
video of it I'm still not convinced that
it's real
we're the plane it was a it was one of
those like planes outta Reno you know
the racing planes out of Reno yeah and
apparently the the video shows one of
the wings coming off and then shows the
pilot flying sideways in front of the
audience
literally sideways like that you could
see the belly of the plane he was using
their brother to keep the nose up and
then at the very last second he flipped
the plane you know flip the plane
vertical and and landed it I wonder
that's the one I saw yeah yeah I'm
looking I'm not convinced that was real
life I think it was a fake an Israeli
f-18 pilot now this was not a military
aircraft this was one of those racing
aircraft I'm not sure if they were
people on board but something happened
confrontation which I think and then he
had their warning warning signals and he
had to land and it was not until he
landed that he noticed that his his his
entire left wing was missing he was
flying with wronging how do you not
notice that
I just ran a marathon and then at the
end of it I just realized that I only
had one leg yeah thank you everything is
shaking you are preoccupied keeping the
plane in the air
and in a military plane you can just
speed it up and eventually it just but
you still have to land by is to lightly
speed it's not if you're landing if
you're flying fast enough you won't land
that's the problem the whole point of
landing the aircraft is managing all
that kinetic kinetic energy and bringing
it to lift from that one side so your
plane will go into a spin he was and he
was skied and it also showed planes are
capable of when they need you the thing
that I remember about military aircraft
especially the lighter ones is they are
inherently unstable you cannot fly them
without the computer yes yeah that
computer has to be running or otherwise
the plane just won't fly
I think the f16 was the first plane that
but whether it can do that without a
wing is a whole nother question going
Mach 3 yeah bye
yeah well yeah yesterday I was ever in
problems with balancing well I
discovered what it was the agile Library
in Nazareth with Rome it didn't
capitalize the the and things like that
yeah
they're away to a different library and
everybody to work out they got the
sounder will go and house your question
Bobby
now I'd figured out to plate the same
work if you usually bash and use the
magical bond I can do a project though I
can run it as a process to go like a
magical bond and I could run those up
bleep for full of dead records or
something like that
dr. Darwin did not have to do it to get
like on that stank or not applicator oh
yeah yeah yeah you don't Devlin get that
I have no idea how to do that don't make
sound out of ash III you begged ran out
that shop to die a baby sandal I don't
like to play a wife oh yeah yeah that's
that's not something I know how to do my
gosh my Bosch window is like just a
black screen and I don't ever I don't
ever do is that for audio anything you
could anything you can do with the
command line pray that you can do in a
bash script you have to know what
arguments are what programs to run it
does not by default know how to do but I
worked I are you did I live which plays
I wait oh yeah yeah yeah but that not
too big to use again there might be and
then I'll play another one I play in
three straight but the problem is you
can plug in the bloody full up every
time you wanna play something so he
bought the time bleep love the follow-up
the directed to go Defoe and done a I
agree though it takes to program to
those you put nice yeah little way that
movie I was a toy but large July 20
something like a badger bones some you
know I paid 400 years 10 seconds or
something like that that's great to do
that I've been looking around
then yet they were gonna have a bloody
stage 11 they do think that I have a not
out of the God well the problem is that
that speaker is the only thing that's
constant with all pcs Oh pink you look
at you right like it to get anything to
come out of a sound card you have to
drive it properly and that typically
means some sort of a some sort of a
program that comes with the manufacturer
of the of the sound card I seem to
recall that they used to be positive
more easy but then there was a like a
security hole or something in the
program and so they patched it and now I
don't know why no I mean yeah if you can
do that if that works just like as you
run a play as the as the command in the
bash script just put an ampersand after
it to run it in the background and then
it won't stop the execution of your
application that's what I went out there
you've only as rendered they buy that no
that works but the one they're playing
with a big component of game with it
didn't bloody work I mean the guy could
enjoy anything
it's terrible come on no documentation
look at what you're trying to do the
thing to remember there is that what
that fella wrote or what that programmer
wrote probably was written to run just
on a system configured exactly the same
as his was and if your systems not
configured with the same sound card and
the same drivers loaded and all that it
won't work they did a tour with a bike
though it Carroll will you won't you
yeah the carpenter and the the oysters
but he will be a won't lay down the word
it was partly were a were one-time
things don't work in the entirely
working in the debate develop are
running in bash
hey I played ain't them under the vow it
worked
loading within the goddess day they
component a visual component or
component which was not working very
well nor do they work well well they any
compiled up alright there must have been
a mistake somewhere I'm gonna get to
work after potato all the time
they've only worked 50 percent and it
was yesterday go random way work or when
it won't work it takes me back you know
you're reminding me of back in the days
when I used to have to take apart my ps2
computer and plug in an ad-lib sound
card to make it compatible with the
audio in like Wolfenstein and stumbling
those days yeah but but he did get the
app was at Commander's they said
component was it really probably it was
able to work on wit does it work for
well we just put what he got so dirty
copy confused
and he Farley working and Bobby doing
working oh yeah I explained yesterday
I'm sure that yesterday I have a little
problem
yesterday I wanna why I speak a little
ba because I don't know why I to make it
up I should be joined by throw the coat
into our levels and on the end of the
Joe they'd like to wind out silver
plated and I open a jar through made me
praise and plate and sometimes will we
go when you got a ghoul or he's glad you
know you know well I agree I'd be
driving me back to Windows stick and 12
get that rid of the of the VOD entirely
and as well after yesterday what
allocate I could cook up all the time
I'll join your blu-ray pocket know the
fact they be doing
don't worry I'll try to remove via the
plenum Rebecca be duck a great blue
Randy yeah and then we done on anything
stick a toy a well take it very quite
sticky stuff right yeah don't reproduce
Japanese really clued up that 100 do
they know that's what was wrong
yesterday I'm alright now
but I'm looking to the old yeah problems
and table I can get it to go goddammit
Alan Lee brought here to the pipette on
on the date he could bound to ballet
which is run eat I tell ya a protest I
think that Bob Lee both sides now mean
but don't delighted worry me a little
baby bunny buddy I would be opposed to
any type to load up and crying I feel
like Peter when you when you fix that
valve you become the most talkative guy
in the world and for those who in like
I'm sure there are folks who are who are
may be watching this on demand hearsay
and they can't understand what you're
saying but he was explaining what how he
has to do that and sometimes the valve
gets gets clogged up and these has
trouble talking or it makes him coffee
and stuff like done so trying to clear
it out but Peter and everyone it's been
nice having you here for a coffee break
today Peter good luck with your code and
everyone else I will see you again
tomorrow for everyone if you haven't
joined us for a coffee break yet go to
our website category 5 TV and you'll
find out how to do that if you just
scroll down the home page of little ways
and for now have a great afternoon
everybody
see ya bye bye thank you bye
