covering the week stop textin sleight
linux bias google has pushed out
security patches for dozens of
vulnerabilities in its Android mobile
operating system two of which could
allow hackers to remotely execute
malicious code with extremely high
system rights in some cases the malware
could run with highly elevated
privileges a possibility that raises the
severity of the bugs that's because the
bugs located in the Android system
component could enable a specially
crafted transmission to execute
arbitrary code within the context of a
privileged process in all Google release
patches for at least 34 security flaws
although some of the vulnerabilities
were present only in devices available
from manufacturer Qualcomm to
vulnerabilities ranked as critical in
Google's June security bulletins are
among four system flaws located in the
Android system the other two are ranked
with a severity of high the critical
vulnerabilities reside in Android
versions 8 through the most recent
release of 11 an advisory from the
multi-state information sharing and
analysis Center said these
vulnerabilities could be exploited
through multiple methods such as email
web browsing and MMS when processing
media files depending on the privileges
associated with the application an
attacker could then install programs
view change or delete data or create new
accounts with full user rights
vulnerabilities with a severity rating
of high affected the Android media
framework the android framework and the
Android kernel other vulnerabilities
were contained in components shipped in
devices from Qualcomm the two qualcomm
specific critical flaws residing
closed-source components the severity of
other qualcomm flaws were rated as high
anyone with an Android powered device
should check in settings to see if fixes
or updates are available
[Music]
