none of us could have anticipated the
impact of kovat 19 on the global scale
we've all had our lives flipped upside
down in the past month and here to share
their experiences our bollock now ski
hey Robbie how are you
All Things Considered I'm doing well
thanks beau beau is the owner the
founder of a marriage right there one of
the world's most well respected vendors
of single board computers and other
maker tech
so this is where I'm sitting
yeah just in the middle of the Tauri
area cool
my next guest is community ambassador
and co-producer of Seth MacFarlane's the
Orville Tom costantino how's it going
hanging in my friend along with Tom I'm
also thrilled to have visual effects
supervisor on the Orville Brandon
Fayette joining us next in line is our
very own world-famous co-host on
category 5 technology TV adored by all
its satiric Minh hello
and finally cosplay engineer woman who
can start her Tesla by waving her hand
and most recently a contestant on Fox's
new TV series lego masters with Will
Arnett it's a me double D hi Amy
great to see you again now since I work
in IT and we're considered essential I
still have to go to work every single
day but like you I've been very careful
to practice social distancing and for
the most part I'm interacting with
nobody but my immediate family except if
I'm separated by a couple of metres or
more my wife and three kids are at home
and I'm actually kind of feeling a bit
envious of those dads who are able to
stay home with their families right now
just going to be honest but I know it's
not easy for folks we all have our own
challenges Sasha you and your husband
Dave are you guys hanging in absolutely
yeah we are all of the above doing what
it takes you know staying isolated and
you know just keeping ourselves
entertained and prepping for the move
we're good
oh how are you doing you and your family
healthy and safe oh yeah well healthy
good there there's a theory that we in
California have already all had it Amy
how have things been for you transition
to working from home I work from home
most the time and I'm home on the
weekends so not too much of that has
changed for me
do you feel like I'm living in a
fishbowl it's like Oh wake up for the
morning workout and then really cool I
can go outside today but I don't need to
so it's it's an interesting mind it's
more of the mind at least for me because
I'm very much home all the time so it's
just been a very different yes stay away
from the news how is it that Lego
masters was able to air during the
pandemic so like a wrestlers we filmed
from October to December so we had
wrapped filming number premiere date was
in February the last episode just this
week right so it's been interesting
doing interviews because everything now
has been digital interviews come in my
house so it's like one of those or I
just had to open the front door and they
had to take my picture standing outside
this is this is my life now yeah it's
kind of mind-blowing how things have
changed in just a month thinking of I
mean at the start of March I announced
to viewers that we were going to be
moving our studio at the end of the
month but by the time that we got things
rolling on lease arrangements and the
insurance that I'd need for a new place
cope at 19 was in full swing
so our insurance brokerage closed the
property managers office I wasn't sure
if I could get a hold of them I was
actually honestly I was getting worried
that you know perhaps I wouldn't be able
to rent a truck for the move or even
secured a unit in time but I absolutely
had to be out of our old space by April
1st I think it's fair to say that most
if not all of us were caught off guard
let's start with Brandon where were you
and the team at the Orval as like where
were you at as far as production goes I
know you were working on season 3 when
all this went down sure I mean we had we
had filmed a good portion of the first
chunk of episodes of the season and you
know the way we typically work is our
previous team for visual effects is kind
of a couple
so you know did we haven't released how
many episodes of doing the season
probably that we thought no we had 11 so
far for today yeah so we we had things
all the way up episode of 5 and some of
some like one-off scenes shot and you
know we're in previous right now in
episode 10 so you know I mean we were we
weren't a pretty good swing footage-wise
I think when it's strike good good and
now we're working from home trying to
complete kind of the pre-visualization
of all of the effects knees and then
we've been to doing the editorial for
what we have in the can trying to kind
of just get shots ready get stuff
delivered to our the effects vendors so
we can start actually creating you know
the passwords final you know visual
effects we don't know this time is kind
of letting us do which is pretty good
yeah we're just trying to get as much
work done as we can because you know it
could be a long cold summer were you
guys ready for this like how much time
did you have to transition from the Fox
lot to home based editing we had about a
day on my end kind of rough we knew that
we were going to shut down on a Friday
so we kind of synched up as you know
many drives as we could you know we have
to do everything through the Disney
security standards so we got to come in
group making sure everybody's right you
know appropriately locked down everybody
you know as much as you can do in the
midst of a crisis but we met you pretty
good I was gonna get kudos to my wife
she was a little head of the curve
because she knew this was coming so
we're I was able to secure well I mean
ask forgiveness for with content
security to get some footage going but
you know yeah I mean were we were we
ready to go from 0-100 to 0 I mean no no
I don't think anybody was anything we
had a week ramp up time to try to get
everything kind of relevant and then
once we were up and running it was you
know production virtually is a little
bit stilted but we're moving a pretty
good clip now I think we've kind of
gotten into any things cool
Sasha how about you as a personal
support worker you care for elder
elderly folks and I imagine that this
would be a very difficult time
what throughout this entire the pandemic
what has caught you off-guard I was used
to the assumption that the clients I saw
would be my biggest risk you know
there's always risk of injury like back
injuries slits and falls as soon as the
pandemic hit it was the realization that
I as an outsider coming into people's
homes now I was the risk to them that
was that was the biggest thing that
caught me off guard was the fact that
all of a sudden I felt like at any point
in any interaction with any one person I
could unknowingly be getting them sick
and so I I mean I already am a very
careful person but I went into lay
OverDrive's and if there is a rule to be
followed I am following it but yeah that
was the thing that was the biggest thing
that really hit me with the pandemic I
would say well what about you guys what
were you in the midst of a Tamara Droid
we were in the process of scheduling
appointments to go visit clients in the
California Bay Area okay Silicon Valley
and San Francisco area and put that on
hold obviously or social distancing
reasons and with a marriage Road being a
tech company do you feel that that kind
of better prepared you to suddenly have
to move staff to a home-based work
scenario well we are very much a
paperless operation we almost all of our
stuff is already done digitally good
good we have Network staff so we do
things like VPNs and all that type of
stuff to get into the business anyway so
a remote desktop and virtual machines
and stuff like that so it hasn't really
changed a whole lot for us because we
were already kind of prepared to do this
right and we do a lot of work on you
know instead of on paper we do it on
tablets and on on the screen
Amy how about you how have your plans
been impacted yes so I'm supposed to go
to a hacker event in Serbia and we're
planning to fly into Budapest and then
take the train down to Serbia and have
like a hacker thing on the trains of
friends so that is a postpone with no
like no date I go to DEFCON in August I
go to Dragon Con which is also in August
and that may seem it's like enough time
ways away but it's I mean it's really
not I don't see like too many even if
they do reinstate it how many people are
gonna be going to these things because
right here is a very strong motivator a
lot of people and the fear of the
unknown and the the Internet is this
epitome of misinformation
so that's are you gonna be going to an
event and if you are now people are
going to be hugging or the interactions
are not gonna be the same or how people
spend money in the future is going to be
very different I I think this will be an
interesting wake-up call for some of the
younger generations that haven't saved
you know there are six months of savings
or their thousand dollar emergency funds
or however they handle like the
financial crisis situation and I just
adds to like another stress level and
it's interesting because it's how can
how can we give back when we can't even
like some people can't even help
themselves or you feel you can't help
like with interaction and I will say
like working on some side projects or
just building things sometimes I I feel
guilty about sharing like stuff I'm
making you're working on I feel guilty
for being happy actually had a hangout
call the other day with a bunch of
people from the Lego masters and we all
just like had a hangout call and we were
just like buildings yeah it was nothing
plan to build but everyone we were just
building with something with Lego and
all just hanging out on a life call and
it was just felt that that felt normal
to be doing something that you're
already
familiar with yeah so change is hard
right so it's you're out of your comfort
zone for a lot of the most a lot of
people are out of their comfort zone for
that but yeah I guess I've got an
infinite supply of Lego for now comes
with the territory I guess now while I
was really fortunate to have some
friends help out with the move itself
for me it's been really tough juggling
the studio move and setting things up
and being ready to broadcast tonight
since social distancing says that I
can't have anyone else here to help me
out we also had to postpone the
construction so I don't have a stage or
even a desk in front of me I've had to
drill a hole through the studio wall as
a temporary way to get the signal from
the camera into the production room
which is actually a separate room so I
think you know while my scenario is not
terrible
we're all having to kind of figure out
innovative ways to keep doing what we do
I'll start with Tom what about you
what's it been like to have to move to a
home-based production studio I hate not
seeing everyone and also trying to work
with the boss from you know we're you
know seven miles away from each other
and it's you know presents some
technical challenges and yeah I mean I'm
Brandon can answer to its you know I
mean luckily we do a lot of stuff on
computers and hence we're all pretty
good about you know keeping up with each
other but you know there's nothing
replaces all of us being in an office
together
sure yeah I miss I'm missing I'm missing
everybody's faces for sure but you know
we lucked out that we live in an area of
the country that has fast enough
internet that we can do remote with work
station and yeah and why to either you
know little tricks to kind of make sure
that we can keep moving forward you feel
at least kind of like we're in the
office even though we don't really see
each other except over a camera like
this yeah I mean we're definitely
working good I mean it won't be forever
we're you know we're gonna run out of
work I mean the effects can go a little
longer
we can work that out financially but you
know we're now we're gonna run the
pipeline till we run out of material
once we have you know all the end it's
delivered by you guys meaning you've got
a lot of work the shows really visual
effects heavy so I mean we've got
thousands of shots already that we can
start kind of putting into production
just with what you did last few weeks so
you know that's again sculpted animated
you know
ingested into vendor systems you know
and then we start bringing it to life
shot so it's we go we don't have to do
fortunately yeah I can't imagine Tom you
mentioned having to work with the boss
remotely that of course being Seth
MacFarlane thinking back though when you
and I last spoke back in October you
told me that he wasn't really keen on
using remote editing products because he
was seeing a bit of a latency in the
workflow has the need I mean the
absolute requirement to use a remote
workflow has that changed his mind
the technology was strangely evolving
you know it's been a bit of a challenge
I mean we do a lot of very detailed work
but thanks to you know two of these
handsome well one handsome me and then
Brook who was not on this call yeah we
all came together but it is really Brent
you know it was a lot of spit ball I
mean Brenda you can explain it but you
know we've been able to sort of mimic
wood aisle ends basically in bad robots
yeah I used I used to work in betterment
for a while and before the memorable I
was there for about nine years
and I reached out to some contacts there
see if they had any idea you know how to
set up a remote system that enough
latency to kind of guess I was inked and
we did the thing with broken and whoof
you know what I had contact wise we kind
of did a little jury system that
actually proved to be pretty darn good
so we using this news it's newer
software called jump Remote
originally we were going to do this
thing called the Terra D XI which uses h
h BG receiver right Brandon it's a it's
no it's data over IP so it's essentially
a pixel streaming over IP so yeah yeah
but I meant I meant there's another way
to remote a lot of people were doing
which is this other you're talking about
party you're talking about RDM oh yeah I
was the HP remote right which I love the
jumper mode is better because it's Mac
so basically at what could have been on
the lot but it sets office there's two
Avid's that are hooked into the nexus
I'm remoting into it from 6 miles away I
I have two large screens behind me I can
see my abbott and work it remotely
Colette's feeding something from so on
that called the Clear View flexbox which
then sets and watch on his Chrome his
iPhone Chrome browser iPhone or Apple TV
and one plays in real time yeah I mean I
think I think the trick was joke desktop
has a good they have a system they call
fluid motion which actually makes it so
that Tom can sync up in software ok and
mixing that with the soho net system
allows seth to kind of remote in that
the big thing was trying to make sure we
had latency I mean look right now tom an
iPhone spectrum one gig yeah you know
which is you know on a good day you'll
get about 850 to 760 down about 10 to 16
up even though ok it's advertised
because as you know most people on the
internet right now so it's a Sheryl
funneled through a through a pipeline
grid node companies doing that there's
an issue so the good thing was that
fuzzy door had direct fiber and so
allowing that gave us dedicated up
downstream because I mean you need
essentially about a hundred Meg juice to
pump the Clear View yeah yeah I mean
ideally you're minimums are about to
keep it relatively real time is about 25
Meg upload and then when you max that in
drier stuff
yeah well you might show the jump
desktop you need to be about 50 so it's
like we had a hundred up down which was
enough to kind of get it going and
that's being expanded to get even faster
so we can attach more machines to the
system awesome and allow for multiple
working simultaneously instead of doing
the kind of hard drives at your house
for you
I think technologically and maybe it's
because you know this is a tech show at
its heart I find that you know it's so
awesome that we're able to or that we
live in a time when we're able to do
that
Tom you you also said that you'll
eventually run out of work I can only
hope that by the time you get to that
point we're going to be through this but
I guess some viewers and certainly
myself are wondering right now do you
have any projections at this point as to
you know when the third season of the
Orval is going to be available I I'm not
at liberty to say because I don't know I
I think this is gonna affect all
production we will all be in the same
boat so without without quoting me and I
mean that yeah I can't see how all of
television and film isn't delayed by
this you know what people aren't
realizing is we have to now figure out
how you go back and put a hundred to two
hundred people in a wood box and film
together when there's you know when we
don't have a vaccine or a treatment yet
so we got some plans to do yeah we that
we mean the higher ups than us right
right that's not answer yeah Sasha how
how have you and Dave been impacted so
with the pandemic happening we made the
very important decision to be closer to
Dave's dad sooner rather than later and
we moved up our Moon are moved to
Newfoundland by a few months and so
we're packing up and leaving and going
in the midst of a pandemic which is an
interesting kind of it's a challenge
because you we have to abide by social
isolation and physical distancing even
during you know a very big like
multi-day move where we have to take
into account the fact that we can't go
anywhere for food
dude you know that sort of thing when we
get to the when we get to the house we
get home we're not allowed off the
property for 14 days it's it's legally
you know mandated quarantine which we
happily will abide by but it does mean
that we've had to make make arrangements
that there's gonna be food there for us
you know that you know that sort of
thing that you don't even you would
never think that free movement in your
own country would be something that you
would have to really think about though
how have you been impacted at a marriage
right there there are people are working
from home now most most people here are
working from home at the moment but our
shipping staff still coming in and
they're still shipping yeah and
everybody in the social distancing thing
good we have a fair amount of room here
so it's easy to keep keep our distance
but in our in our county right now
there's only one confirmed case and it's
a somebody who's on parole so or on
probation I guess it's they're under
house arrest right now anyway so just
like the rest of us bow ami how about
you I have pretty much a full maker
space shop in my house so that hasn't
changed too much I have the access to 3d
printers laser cutters I have a five
access CNC machine I have like I have
all the tools to do stuff here yeah at
this point I think it's just as I always
think about this little thing it says
headcase all right
because at some point I'm always worried
about time for finishing a project or
for a certain event or a certain kind
and now it's like I have this abundance
of time what can I be doing with this
extra time I'm now I'm not commuting an
hour to work and an hour from work I
mean reality is everyone has the same
hours in the day as everyone else right
so you know when people are what's the
motivation to get out of bed
the morning for me I've been making
myself workout every day so when people
are stumbling out of bed when it's still
dark outside I've already I've already
worked out for the day I've already
tried to make the best of it that's a
good idea how do you stick to it I am I
am you make a habit you make a
discipline you just indiscipline not as
a punishment and discipline as in you
can do this you're you know you're worth
it
so every day so I think today is like my
24th day that I've worked out or
something but like like the fifth day
I'm like this sucks I don't want to do
it right but that discipline has like
I'm like come change so much of just how
my day has been like all right I'm
waking up at the same time every morning
even on the weekend when I don't have to
work because if nothing I just get in
this slump and I'm like now I'm just
watching useless stuff on TV something
that is not furthering or pushing myself
like I could stay home anytime and watch
Netflix like why um not that I still got
some Netflix shows I like so no judgment
on that it's I think it's going to
change to the future of any company or
places that say hey you can't work from
home and now all these companies in
these roles position to that right um
also all the wonderful parents that are
also learning how to balance
homeschooling and and working yeah I
think it's been a different challenge
for each of us you know I I think like
I'd try to think how many days it's been
my biggest challenge is my dad is older
so try to not you know like if I have to
be around him or you know go get his
groceries like not being able to give
those people a hug has been like hard
for me I think also like not the fear of
the unknown the fear of the unknown is
probably one of the hardest things is
I'm I'm planning to go to these two
conferences if they'd be here so I'm
trying to plan to work on these projects
and have these things finished on time
so now where's the motivation to finish
those
why should I finish those and that's the
next steps like okay what if this is the
new norm now now we're not going to be
having these events am i making my
projects for myself or other people am i
making it like it's kind of sorry
puppies thirsty no worries you were
saying that you were considering whether
you were making your projects for
yourself or for others yeah but it's
kind of made me think it's like why do
we do the things that we do do we do
them for acceptance about people are we
doing them for us or doing them to learn
and I think I've kind of been honing on
like improving some projects I've
already worked on and I was like so I'm
not gonna go back and work on that it's
fine and you know I'm fine it's just not
okay so I've been back and kind of
improving on some of those and I have
the time to do it so that's been a yeah
I guess an interesting balance yeah
that's good
Sasha what's been the hardest for you I
think the uncertainty day-to-day the
fact waking up not not knowing what's
happening the next day has been
difficult and I would say for me
personally my biggest challenge has been
I have a tendency to lean towards like
the bright side of everything as you
know and although I mean it's so good to
see all of all of the humanitarian
efforts and all of the good that's
coming out of this pandemic there's a
real sad side of it and for me it's
coming to terms with like the actual
fact of the tragedy and it's been a very
big challenge for me to balance that I
think because I have found myself you
know being one of maybe many who end up
glued to the TV and they're watching
stats and they're watching you know it's
it's real lives being affected
yeah at some point I had to teach myself
okay I need to turn it off and just tune
in you know to something some good
lights yeah
so that's been our biggest challenge is
just learning to filter through when
it's appropriate to be a part of the the
news and when it's not
Amy how about you I had my grandmother
died two weeks ago I'm so sorry but I
never thought I would be asking like to
do a private live streaming of a funeral
and you know we live in weird times and
you know so a lot of family members
couldn't be there for the funeral and I
was trying to put it in a way to my dad
is it's not as a disrespectful thing to
do this for your mother our grandmother
and my brother put is a good point he
said we have these amazing technology
tools to connect us so even if we can't
physically be there like we can be there
virtually and people didn't used to have
that that chance or that experience and
though it is bizarre I guess you would
say to livestream a private funeral I
know those people that couldn't be there
we're very grateful that they could at
least I guess honor or put their respect
towards it yeah yeah it's it's
definitely living in a weird time yeah
Sasha besides the move itself what kind
of changes has the pandemic brought
about for you so if this is actually
really quite the interesting it's almost
experiments in the fact that we were
between studios and then we are in a
pandemic yeah and we have to be
physically distant because now as a part
of the show in order to maintain you
know the connections I've made I am
going to turn a part of the house into a
studio and so I'll be able to connect
remotely just as we're doing now and I
mean it'll be
a different time zone which I understand
but I'll have to get accustomed to I
think I end up I end up airing an hour
and a half later than you but yeah I'll
be I'll still be part of the show I'll
just be very physically distant Amy how
have you had to adapt I found that I've
had to become more resourceful so for
example I was trying to design some like
new circuit board components and I need
some parts that I don't have and have to
order well now they're not available
right I can't get them so I'm like okay
I have to use what I have in my house I
feel like I'm like you know yeah you
have these five things and you have to
make this and you have an hour I feel
like I'm back on the Lego master but I
feel that I started become more creative
and or really understand the parts that
I do have or take things apart but it's
hard technology I think having the
Internet has the internet connects us
but I even did like the the Netflix
watch party and I've never done that
before where you watch movies with your
friends and I'm like why that's weird I
just watched movies by myself anyways
but it was actually really fun cuz we
had six of us in the room an early movie
you're sitting next to the person or
you're in the dark so you don't ever get
to see and it was actually probably more
fun to watch my friend's facial
expressions because some of them had
never seen you know like some of these
like old school movies or Star Wars or
Indiana Jones and you're just like wait
a minute or when they like make the
connection so to watch their facial
expression it's like taking someone to
Disney World for the first time it's
almost just as fun to watch them that's
such a fun idea now this is a terrible
time for many and and some of you that
are watching at home may have lost a
loved one or some of you are scared or
coping with loneliness or worry
I want you to remember that you're not
alone through this we're all
experiencing this differently but we're
all in this together
Tom your thoughts you know I'm gonna
quote my great grandmother in law who's
no longer with us but was very wise and
she always would say this too shall pass
and she's been through like three world
wars and you know trying to think about
all the all the myriad of things I think
she was even around for the early part
of the Great Depression so you know it
seems as bad right now and it's gonna be
rough but humans are resilient and you
know maybe in a year year and a half
it'll just be that haha funny thing for
us it was lucky to stay healthy haha
funny thing we hey remember that time we
all were stuck in our houses for months
on end um hopefully you know but I do
think the human race is very resilient I
think you know like I said it's almost
like buying a house if you were lucky
enough to do so it's horrible trying to
do it and then when then you don't
remember any of it except for the house
when it's over with so you know I think
I think well I'll be okay eventually
thanks Tom yeah I hear ya it actually
reminds me my wife and I were just going
through some old photos from a couple
years back just on this past weekend
we'd taken the kids up to the cottage
for Canada days fireworks so we sat on
the beach of West Guilford and as the
Sun went down we got eaten alive by
mosquitoes it was terrible but as we
looked at the photos my wife actually
remarked in looking at the pictures all
you see is the good part of the memories
you forget about the insects the
discomfort and how terrible it was at
the time we made it through and now all
we have is the fond memory and I'm
really hoping that we're gonna see the
same in this situation
sascha final words this will pass we
will be okay and we're with you every
step of the way this world is is small
we are your neighbors we I mean if any
saying that that this pandemic has shown
us is how just even one kind word to
another person can really make a
difference and yeah I just want to say
we're in this together and we are here
for you I am here for you all this be
here in Newfoundland thank you my friend
Amy what would you say is important for
each of us to keep in mind I think it's
it's okay to laugh still and I think
that's what people are sometimes afraid
of right now is like I feel guilty for
having fun
and fun doesn't have to mean you're
irresponsible and you're you know you're
going outside with like 20 people and
you're right I mean fun can be like we
were you know you get to go your friends
and you do a livestream and you put
together stuff so you can yep you can
laugh so after you can still have some
future I don't have I don't the right
answer for that and I don't anyone that
says they have the right answer doesn't
know themselves there's too many
unknowns but yeah support like you're
not eleven like that that's the best
part you're you're not alone but we also
have the tools to connect or maybe you
know someone who can't afford a laptop
maybe you can you know donate for some
you know people to get laptops or cell
phones something to have someone to help
them stay in touch because those are
things I I don't think about and I know
some of the school districts they're
teaching you know the kids are from home
I'm gonna go do they provide laptops for
those kids and I know a lot of schools
don't so that's it's also financial yeah
you're right I've been fortunate
personally that with all with all three
of my kids at home I've been able to
give them each an old computer but sadly
and I kind of feel bad about this but it
honestly Amy I never really thought
about
how others may not have access to to an
old computer for example so I think
that's a really great idea
thanks Amy bow speaking to those who are
struggling right now what would you like
them to know and that's that's hard you
know life can be really difficult and
we've come through with quite a few
challenges since the turn of the century
haven't we with terrorist attacks and
housing crisis in the late 2005 2008 and
and after that we had the recession and
and you know just their ongoing actions
in the Middle East and I don't know just
there's been a lot of stuff going on in
life and you know I from a technology
standpoint there's not really a whole
lot we can do other than prepare - work
from home - we raised our children in a
home school environment so so as far our
children are already out of that past
that so it would not have made much
difference for us from a schooling
perspective but I can see how for a lot
of people it's it's making a huge
difference and I'm hoping that it gives
people more time with their children
really as they as a prepare to school
from home and as they work from home as
well of course I can be challenging to
segment work and school you're working
you know working family life yeah yeah
but as far as people who are suffering
that's I wish I had some magic words to
say for those people other than bro in
your in your faith and rely on a higher
power because you know we as humans can
only do so much thanks Bo
Brandon some final thoughts I think
right now there are people that are
fortunate to be able to work like
we are and you know for long as we have
that that's blessing and I think for
those that are struggling right now you
know the world has gotten through
recessions the world has gotten through
Wars people are very good at adapting
and picking up a little forth there's
gonna be a light at the end of this
tunnel there there always is you know we
as a society and as a planet you know
can get through things and bounce back
even stronger and I think that there's
me a lot of positive that comes out of
this that uh we didn't really see before
and I'd say for everybody you know find
a thing
to keep you happy find a new hobby spend
some time doing something you haven't
done before but find one great thing a
day to you know keep you motivated you
know create something you've never
created you know it's it's a time to
explore things it's a time to say you
know hey for those who have family you
know this is time you're never gonna get
again like this you know take photos of
your kids have these memories you know
they won't remember it but you will and
you can show them later what this was
like I mean as it's a milestone event
for the world I think we need to just
recognize that in the midst of all the
negative that's surrounding us there's
definitely positive thanks so much
everyone I appreciate those words so
very much from all of us
we wish you your families health and
comfort throughout this time stay safe
