here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom there's a black hole
lurking within a thousand light-years of
Earth and people in the southern
hemisphere can see stars circling it
with the naked eye two terabytes of
Nintendo source code was leaked Facebook
trained their AI chat BOTS using reddit
posts Tesla has applied to become an
electricity supplier in the UK the Poco
f2 pro smartphone with the qualcomm
snapdragon 865 has launched globally and
twitter will allow employees to work
from home for as long as they want stick
around the full details in this week's
crypto corner are coming up this is the
category 5 dot TV newsroom covering the
week stop texting with a slight linux
bias from the newsroom
I'm Becca Ferguson astronomers have
stumbled across the nearest black hole
to us yet the void lies at the heart of
a stellar system just a thousand light
years away and indications to his
location are visible to the naked eye a
team of researchers were observing the
hr6 8 1 9 star system from the European
Southern Observatory in Chile as part of
a wider survey studying by NARS start
binary star systems and they stumbled
across a third object
spectrographic data revealed that one of
the stars orbited an invisible companion
every 40 days meanwhile the second star
sits much farther away from the first
they now believe that the HR 68 19 is
not a double system but a triple system
one that contains two stars that are
both around the six solar masses and a
third object that is at least 4.2 solar
masses that number is much too high for
the object to be a neutron star
Thomas Ravinia Swit author of the study
said an invisible object with a mass at
least four times out of the Sun can only
be a black hole if the researchers are
indeed correct the object will be the
closest black hole from earth discovered
yet Peter had drama the co-author of the
research said the team was totally
surprised when we realized that this is
the first stellar system
with a black hole that can be seen with
the unaided eye as a point of clarity
the black hole itself isn't visible to
the naked eye only the stars are for
those in the southern hemisphere hoping
to catch a glimpse it's located in the
telescope ium constellation and will be
best viewed during a clear night and two
fuzzy bright pin pricks should be
discernible without binoculars or a
telescope
although the object seems to have been
ears all along it is escape detection
until now not only as a black hole
pretty small is also very quiet
meaning it doesn't spew Jets of
electromagnetic radiation
unlike the supermassive ones at the
Centers of galaxies guzzling up the
stars the team has only managed to infer
its existence from the wobble of the
stars that orbit it the team is hoping
to capture images of the orbit to
further establish the distance and mass
of the system's objects an anonymous
hacker leaked around 2 terabytes worth
of source code related to the Nintendo
Wii GameCube and in tendo 64 designs
this cache includes very log code for
the hardware essentially the coded
blueprints for the various chips while a
neat peek into the inner workings of
Nintendo and a rare look at the
low-level design of the specialized
chips that go into consoles don't expect
too much to come out of this while in
theory the very log code could be used
to turn chlochops into Nintendo chip
knock-offs
the equipment and expertise needed to do
that would be very expensive and not the
sort of thing a hobbyist could do and
any commercial efforts would no doubt be
torn to shreds by Nintendo lawyers the
leak also apparently won't be of any use
to the developers of emulators who can
only legally do what they do by reverse
engineering the developers of the
dolphin emulators say in response to the
leak we cannot use anything of any sort
from a leak in fact we can't even look
at it
dolphin is only illegal because we are a
cleanroom reverse engineering the
GameCube and Wii if we use anything from
a leak
dolphin is no longer legal and Nintendo
will shut us down that's not to say
there won't be a fly-by-night emulators
which include the leech code but we'd
advise serious caution when considering
a
using any such tool as it is very likely
to include malware or backdoors for
malicious use Facebook has launched a
new chat bot that it claims is able to
demonstrate empathy knowledge and
personality their chat BOTS which
they've annoyingly named blender was
trained using available public domain
conversations which included 1.5 billion
examples of human exchanges but experts
say training the artificial intelligence
using a platform such as reddit has its
drawbacks numerous issues arose during
longer conversations blender would
sometimes respond with offensive
language and at other times it would
make up facts altogether researchers
said they hoped further models would
address some of these issues
artificial intelligence expert Dave
Chopin said that blender was a step in
the right direction but noted two
fundamental issues that still need to be
overcome he told the BBC the first is
just how complex it is to replicate all
of the nuances of a human attribute like
the ability to hold a conversation a sip
a skill that most three-year-olds can
master the second is around the
relationship with the data used to train
the model and the results generated by
the model it goes on to explain as great
a platform as read it is training
algorithms based on the conversations
you find there is going to get you a lot
of chaff amongst the wheat Facebook also
compared blenders performance with the
latest version of Google's own chat BOTS
Mina it showed people two sets of
conversations one made with blender and
the other with Mina conversations
included a wide range of topics
including movies music and veganism
Facebook said the 67% of respondents
through blender sounded more human than
Mina the researchers noted we achieved
this milestone through a new chat bot
recipe that includes improved decoding
techniques novel blending of skills and
a model with nine point four billion
parameters which is three point six
times more than the largest this
existing system building a truly
intelligent dialogue agent that can chat
like a human remains one of the largest
open challenges in AI today
all right thanks Becca we've got to take
a quick break when we come back
Robert Koenig is here with the crypto
corner and Becca's got more news stories
for us coming up as well stick around
[Music]
come back for your cryptic comment of
your well this week I'd like to focus on
information if you've been more than one
week with this in this industry and
you've post around YouTube or any other
news outlets you'll have seen that there
is a lot of different information out
there and most of that is misleading
yeah you've got those maximalist that
are pretending that their coin or token
is the best one and that everything else
is pretty bad you have got those that
are shilling coins so they're trying to
sell you something and a lot of people
also have got no clue what they're
talking about so this week I'd like to
focus on exactly that subject I've been
in this industry since 2015 and what
you'll see now is a collection of those
YouTube videos and podcasts that I
follow on a regular basis you'll see the
table at the end of this video and it
will be tabled with a name off of the
podcast or YouTube video and then in the
case of YouTube
I also added the subscribers so that you
can find it easier in case there's
somebody pretending to be that youtuber
so let's start with it
crypto 101 it's a podcast it's two guys
then are doing interviews and about one
every two or three days
they're fantastic those interviews
because they're neutral they don't
pretend to be threatening or anything
like that they're just neutral they're
really kind kind and they get the
information that you as a user would
like to hear so crypto 101 fantastic
podcast next one is Ivan on tech so
that's for us here at category 5 an
interesting one because he focuses on
the coding and programming side he does
seven days a week a YouTube video he's
one of the leaders in this industry in
regards to programming and coding the
third one is Andreas Antonopoulos
he is one of the orgies in the Krypton
industry 2014 he did a presentation in
front of the Canadian Senate he does
probably five or six YouTube videos a
week and the nice thing for you is that
he categorizes them so it's not just
talking about everything he categorizes
them so that it's easy for you to find
or see if it's something that's of
interest to you or not next one is
crypto whereby the O is a zero it's not
an O it's a zero it's a guy called Omar
bomb really nice guy has been in this
industry for NIH long time knows
everybody and has got fairly good news
he does it also around every two or
three days mmm filet is crypto bud who I
read very high because he is coming from
the trading traditional trading of
traditional finance point of view and he
does fantastic analysis on coins and
tokens and projects he really goes into
detail with those and analyzes them and
and it's very good what he does followed
is Laura shin I would say she's the only
real journalist in this industry and
when she has got somebody that she
interviews those interviews go in depth
and in a really professional so I love
to listen to Laura shins podcasts crypto
daily if the next one he is the fun guy
of this industry if you're interested in
memes combined with some information
then he's the right guy for you if you
want to enlighten your life a little bit
then yes definitely go with crypto daily
the modern investor is somebody that
never shows his face he sits somewhere
in Europe and he reads the news as he
finds them on all those news outlet AHS
left also outlets that exist he does it
very well he
also gives his own opinion on those
yeah the modern investor next one is
Stefan Lovera if that somebody if you
want to geek out that's the right person
for you behind Andreas Antonopoulos II I
would say he is the one who has got the
most detailed knowledge of products
wallets exchanges everything he does
interviews and he has always also the
top people lined up so Stefan leave ever
for the technical people box mining next
one is also technically he was a
programmer game programmer is based in
Hong Kong and that's also very good
analysis of coke cans and coins the
moment he mixes a lot of news from Hong
Kong and and China in regards to the
virus that is currently going around and
but when he goes to crypto his knowledge
is very good and also unbiased last but
not least is data - I would say he's the
best one doing technical analyst
analysis so if you're into technical
analysis then data - is the right person
he has got very good knowledge huge
follower base and knows knows the market
also very well so all those here that I
just mentioned are those that I am
watching on a regular basis I arrayed
all those as mutual people that really
know what they're talking about so
that's the ones that I recommend to you
and as you will see in a second you'll
have that table behind me so you don't
have to write things down anyway I wish
you a great week all the best see you
next week and stay safe bye
[Applause]
thank you Robert
just a reminder for you viewing at home
we are not giving financial advice here
on the show however we're just giving
you the facts and letting you run with
it keep in mind though that the
cryptocurrency market is always changing
always evolving and is always volatile
so we suggest only invest what you can
afford to lose now with more of your
tech news
here's Becca Thank You Robby best known
for its electric cars Elon Musk's
company Tesla also makes batteries that
store renewable energy on both domestic
and industrial scales and they have
applied to become an electricity
supplier in the UK the application was
lodged at the end of March with the UK's
gas and electricity markets Authority
for a license to generate electricity to
supply any premises in Great Britain
there has been lower demand for
electricity during lockdown as a result
of the corona virus pandemic with many
factories and major businesses having to
shut down but electricity supply and
demand has to be balanced within the
grid for it to function being able to
generate and store our own electricity
does have its appeal especially if the
grid becomes unbalanced and requires the
power to be cut temporarily in addition
Tesla has developed software called Auto
bitter that allows customers to sell
surplus electricity back to the grid
automatically they use auto bitter in
South Australia but it's not yet clear
if they plan to build similar large
battery plants in the UK which are
required to store the surplus a home
version of the Tesla battery the
powerwall cost thousands of British
pounds and requires a set of solar
panels you may remember the polka phone
f1 now the poco f2 Pro has launched
complete with the Qualcomm Snapdragon
865 an impressive 8k video recording the
polka phone f1 was a rare Beast and an
actual example of a flagship killer now
almost two years later it's finally time
for an upgrade
the poco brand began as a sub brand of
Chinese phone manufacturer show me but
with the success of the f1 it was
decided that it could stand on its own
and they broke it out into its own
independent company based in India
following the f1 they rebranded the
mid-range redmi k 30 calling it the poco
x2 now the new f2 model is essentially a
rebranded K 30 pearl the poco f2 Pro
brings a long list of improvements
compared to the f1 starting with the
latest chipset a snapdragon 865 is the
best chip from qualcomm yet and one of
the first to feature GPU drivers that
can be updated which might improve the
phone's longevity a lot of emphasis was
placed on the liquid-cooled 2.0 Tec with
a vapor chamber that in itself is larger
than competing phones poco says this
will enable more efficient cooling the
f2 pro runs Android 10 out of the box
with poco launcher 2.0 dark mode is
available which looks gorgeous on the
upgraded AMOLED screen storage now
starts at 128 gigabytes there's also a
256 gigabytes option which we'd
recommend since they've removed the
microSD slot and the 8k video can eat up
a lot of space the storage is fast UF u
FS 3.1 up from 2.1 on the f1 the new
camera on the foot on the poco f2 pro
may be what pushes diehard poco phone
with f1 fans to upgrade the phone has
four rear-facing camera sensors the
setup includes a 64 mega pixel pixel
sony imx6 86 sensor
it supports three-time optical optical
zoom as well as dual optical image
stabilization there's also a 13
megapixel ultra wide-angle camera and
eight pixel mega an 8 megapixel tell
them that tell them that this is a
tongue-twister an 8 megapixel tell a
macro camera and a 5 megapixel sensor
for selfies you get a 20 megapixel
camera on a motorized pop-up mechanism
capable of just a 1080p video that's the
one thing we'd really like to see
improved for v loggers who are forced
use the rear cameras if they want to
shoot in 4k or 8k Ultra HD speaking of
Ultra HD the more powerful chipset
enables 8k recording at the full 30fps
and 4k videos can now be recorded at
60fps the switch to M AMOLED also let
allowed the fingerprints reader to be
hidden in the screen the screen
refreshes at a standard 60 Hertz but the
touch sampling rate has been increased
to 180 Hertz the poco f2 also has wide
by an l1 certification so we can play HD
content from Netflix Amazon Prime video
and other services the capacity of the
battery has increased to of 4,700
milliamp hours with faster 30 watt
charging and a headphone jack is still
included the poco f2 is available now
through our partners head over to cat5
TV / f2 to check it out
according to a spokesperson for the
company Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey told
employees on Tuesday that many of them
will be allowed to work from home in
perpetuity even after the corona virus
pandemic ends in an email first obtained
by BuzzFeed news Dorsey said it was
unlikely that Twitter would open his
offices before September and that all in
person events would be cancelled for the
remainder of the year the company will
accept assess its plans for 2021 events
later this year the spokesperson said we
were uniquely positioned to respond
quickly and allow folks to work from
home given our emphasis on
decentralization and supporting a
distributed workforce capable of working
from anywhere the past few months have
proven we can make that work so if our
employees are in a role and situation
that enables them to work from home and
they want to continue to do so forever
we will make that happen if not our
offices will be there warm and welcoming
selves with some additional precautions
when we feel it's safe to return
Twitter's new policy comes as businesses
around the world are struggling to adapt
to social distancing guidelines and
rethinking how they will operate in a
post pandemic world major tech companies
such as face
Google and Microsoft were early to move
to a work-from-home model and have also
been the most cautious in planning for
moving employees back into the office
Google has told employees that the vast
majority of them will work from home
until 2021 though some will return in
the early summer Facebook will similarly
start to reopen offices after the July 4
weekend but will let employees who are
able to work from home do so until next
year
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at patreon.com slash
category-five from a category-5 TV
newsroom i'm becca Ferguson
