all right we've got your ballots in
folks and we've got your names written
down congratulations to everyone who has
qualified so far I see who do I see
skywriter 64 marsh man GF f king swiss
aghh g-dog 1985 baldra the brave orange
man marsh man a Mara droid vp9 mini
Marsh Rd Blair Ronnie Kat tell me when I
start repeating myself an M Copland I
feel like that was like robbery I always
feel like a kitten I'm doing this so
this is for I'm actually getting steps
right now so this is great this is
really good this is how I track my steps
with my fitness tracker which you are
about to win let's see here folks here
we go here we go
relations do we know where vp9 is one
they mentioned it in the child
congratulation hollaback words your
fitness tracker all you have to do is
private message me your shipping address
or send me an email
live at category five TV and that will
be shipped to you this week
congratulations hey if you want to
qualify for our next draw all you have
to do is email live at category five dot
TV tell us where you're watching from
and what your username is and you could
be next to win whatever it is we happen
to be giving away
[Music]
