covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias best known for its electric
cars Elon Musk's company Tesla also
makes batteries that store renewable
energy on both domestic and industrial
scales and they have applied to become
an electricity supplier in the UK the
application was lodged at the end of
March with the UK's gas and electricity
markets authority for a license to
generate electricity to supply any
premises in Great Britain there has been
lower demand for electricity during
lockdown as a result of the corona virus
pandemic with many factories and major
businesses having to shut down but
electricity supply and demand has to be
balanced within the grid for it to
function being able to generate and
store our own electricity does have its
appeal especially if the grid becomes
unbalanced and requires the power to be
cut temporarily in addition Tesla has
developed software called Auto bitter
that allows customers to sell surplus
electricity back to the grid
automatically they use auto bitter in
South Australia but it's not yet clear
if they plan to build similar large
battery plants in the UK which are
required to store the surplus the home
version of the Tesla battery the
powerwall cost thousands of British
pounds and requires a set of solar
panels
