Canadian folklore and ghost stories as
retold by author Becca Ferguson narrated
by Robbie Ferguson this is the koribo of
New France Quebec
in 1761 st. Valley a new France 15
months after the mysterious death of her
first husband Marie Joseph Corriveau
married a second farmer two years later
he was found dead in the barn with his
head smashed in at first his death was
deemed accidental multiple kicks from a
horse's hooves but rumors of murder
quickly spread around the town the local
British military authorities soon
charged Marie Joseph's father Joseph
Corriveau his daughter was thought to be
an accessory only and given 60 lashes
the letter M branded onto her hand with
a hot iron
Joseph however admitted that his
daughter was the murderer claiming she'd
killed her abusive husband with two
blows from the back of a hatchet while
he slept
thus thereby found guilty by the
tribunal she was put to death in Quebec
City by hanging her corpse was fastened
into an iron cage Givet and dangled from
a tree branch at the crossroads of st.
Joseph Street and DeLonge Taunton
Boulevard in La Vie there it rotted on
public display for an entire month
feasted upon by flies and maggots torn
asunder by crows it wasn't long before
the hauntings began
travelers soon learned not to take the
river road leading past the cage at
night lest her vacant eyes should glow
blood red and her shackled leathery arms
should stretch out toward them even
after the gibbet was taken down her body
buried within the cage the hauntings
continued her spirit rising from the
grave each night to torment travelers
one such night a well-known citizen
named Dube was walking alongside the st.
Lawrence River when the air turned chill
he stopped short
just as a pair of bony fingers closed in
around his throat from behind tendrils
of greasy black hair tickled his cheeks
and a ragged voice whispered take me
across river to base one around
glimpsing over his shoulder a set of red
eyes and yellow teeth within a face of
putrefied flesh he fell to his knees
tearing at the slimy hands that refused
to let go leave me he screamed then
passed out from fright the next morning
his wife found him and shook him awake
on the vacant road his story spread and
a curate was called in to exorcise the
spirit a century later the cage was dug
up during an expansion project and put
in a church cellar it was stolen and
sold to an American who put it in his
Museum in a glass display case with a
placard that read simply from Quebec in
time it was returned to Canada and
placed permanently in the Museum of
Civilization
Quebec City this has been liqueur Evo of
New France Quebec part of Becca
Ferguson's Canadian folklore and ghost
stories series catch the complete and
ever-growing series on Wattpad or
directly on the author's website Becca
Ferguson dot-com like comment and be
sure to subscribe so you don't miss the
next tale
