I have a super cool Aurora master which
is like this really neat light display
that can go on your ceiling in your
bedroom or your kitchen okay your
bathroom oh yeah let's see let's
actually get into the box
I'm doing it yeah all right so courts
what kind of course have we got this is
it yeah a USB device keep it on the
camera for us USB so okay it's USB
two-barrel that's interesting and then
this one here which is just like audio
is that audio it is yeah because this
actually has a built-in speaker I am
it's red it's something and this is I
guess a how to how to turn on the light
yeah okay oh this is the action here so
this is the Aurora master 12 LED 8 mode
LED ocean wave projector so apparently
what I'm understanding here sash is that
this is meant to project the ocean onto
any rights in a variety of colors so the
red ocean or the blue ocean okay so you
can see that there's a spot here for
batteries you need a screwdriver for
that I will need a screwdriver okay
we've all and then I guess here is I
guess you can plug it in via USB right
cool
I wonder if you could actually plug that
then into your laptop and it would
actually it would function would you
have to plug in also this audio thing
into your lap so I guess if you want to
use it as a speaker so if you wanted it
to be playing say nature sounds of
Ontario Canada and right nature sounds
from our RSS feed Bingham then you could
actually have the ocean sounds
at the same time right or music or
whatever else it has an auto shutoff
after one hour so you can fall asleep to
this and then it won't be playing all
day so over here you can't quite see it
because it's white on white but that's
an on/off and then an up and a down
volume button okay and it looks like
that's kind of it pretty simple device
yeah I do
should we plug it in let's okay well
bring it back over here okay so this is
a lot bigger than I was thinking it
looks you know from the pictures on
Amazon you'll think that it's like the
size of a coffee cup or something like
that this is that's a honkin huge latte
right there great so I'm thinking it
would actually project pretty large onto
a ceiling if can I can I unwrap this can
you get the gonna get these off there
perfect there we go there we go
and there you are just plug it into your
laptop and see if it just works okay
okay so you said there's a power button
here yeah it's right in the middle yeah
oh yeah okay we've got some light so I
wonder can you cycle through yep so
that's red
okay Oh party lights party lights let's
do it no way can we turn the lights dim
the lights and we're gonna see how that
looks okay so this is this is pretty
neat I don't know if you guys I gotta
hold this up but this is pretty bright
mm-hmm that's just on the ceiling of our
studio here just the drop ceiling and
then you obviously wouldn't sleep
through the party lights like there's
others you'll see wow it's really dark
in here right so you can have this okay
like the maps of Hell so this would like
some gentle whale music or something
[Applause]
well you can see my shadow that's
awesome yeah also you can actually see
this yeah but it's it there's like this
fluid motion to it and and some of the
reviews on Amazon have said that it's
janky that it's clunky that the the
animation is not smooth but look at that
looks good to me
we can actually see that could we switch
the mode again to see sure yeah look at
how smooth that looks oh that's not the
one yeah Rhett it's got this like really
I want to see like a natural ocean Wow
partay there you go
I think blue is that's the one that's
cool I could fall asleep to that sure
okay so that's what it looks like folks
definitely has a smooth look to it you
can see like and what I'm looking for is
is there any point within the animation
of it where it seems to like click or
jump and I'm not seeing that at all
now I'm gonna get my head down in here
so you're gonna see my shadow I want to
hear because my microphone is on my face
so I've got my face right up to this is
there any sound from it and I hear
nothing Sasha mm-hmm there's no sound
there's no like there's no annoying like
clicking sound of a motor or anything
like that
and if I look in here let's see if I can
actually get you a view I don't see any
movement right where is the movement
actually taking place it must be the
little lights inside must be spinning
just a little bit I'm not seeing it
there's no motion and yet the the roof
is getting that like I'm gonna blind
myself staring at it but there's got to
be so I see how it works there is a lens
there's a little tiny lens that is
moving around over top
the LEDs that's really smart but there's
no sound from the motion there's no
motor sound or anything like that but I
can see if I look and blind myself that
it is in fact a lens you can see that
Sasha it looks like a magnifying glass
just kind of very subtly moving over top
of those LEDs right that's what causes
that animation this would be perfect
with anybody like a child that needs a
nightlight like a transition from a
nightlight to a relaxation yes I like it
a lot I think that's really neat huh and
it's got a built-in speaker we didn't
test the speaker here because that's not
really something that I really care
about but at the same time like if I
wanted to I could plug it into a an mp3
player or something like that to be
honest what I'd probably do is is not
use the speaker with that because I
usually have my phone charging on my my
little lamp beside my bed right so I'll
just plug something into my phone and
have it playing from there cool yeah
that's pretty neat so that is available
at cat5 dot TV slash Aurora Aurora as
per the link in the description below
[Music]
