covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias astronomers have stumbled
across the nearest black hole to us yet
the void lies at the heart of a stellar
system just a thousand light-years away
and indications to his location are
visible to the naked eye a team of
researchers were observing the hr6 8 1 9
star system from the European Southern
Observatory in Chile as part of a wider
survey studying by our start binary star
systems and they stumbled across a third
object spectral graphic data revealed
that one of the stars orbited an
invisible companion every 40 days
meanwhile the second star sits much
farther away from the first they now
believe that the HR 68 19 is not a
double system but a triple system one
that contains two stars that are both
around the 6 solar masses and a third
object that is at least 4.2 solar masses
that number is much too high for the
object to be a neutron star
Thomas Ravinia spher star of the study
said an invisible object with a mass at
least four times out of the Sun can only
be a black hole if the researchers are
indeed correct the object will be the
closest black hole from earth discovered
yet Peter had drama the co-author of the
research said the team was totally
surprised when we realised that this is
the first stellar system with a black
hole that can be seen with the unaided
eye as a point of clarity the black hole
itself isn't visible to the naked eye
only the stars are for those in the
southern hemisphere hoping to catch a
glimpse it's located in the telescope
ium constellation and will be best
viewed during a clear night and two
fuzzy bright pinpricks should be
discernible
without binoculars or a telescope
although the object seems to have been
ears all along it is escape detection
until now not only as a black hole
pretty small is also very quiet meaning
it doesn't spew Jets of electromagnetic
radiation
unlike the supermassive ones at the
Centers of galaxies guzzling up the
stars
the team has only managed to infer its
existence from the wobble of the stars
that orbited the team is hoping to
capture images of the orbit to further
establish the distance and mass of the
system's objects
[Music]
