hovering the week's top text dorks like
Linux bias dell technologies is selling
its InfoSec business RSA for two point
zero seven five billion dollars as it
tries to reduce its long-standing depth
RSA helps companies confirm user IDs and
manage other security security risks it
serves 30,000 customers ranging from
banks to consumer goods makers it also
runs security conferences including one
scheduled for this month in San
Francisco that IBM incidentally dropped
out of recently the sale which was
rubber stamped on Tuesday was made to a
consortium led by STG partners a private
equity investor that specializes in tech
Ontario teachers pension plan board and
Dutch private equity group it's called
alph invest partners Alphen best
partners Vern Alton Alton dust Salado al
out will say Alpine vest
[Music]
