coffee break time everybody happy Good
Friday and I hope you're all well yes
absolutely that's it that's all I got
I've got the coffeemaker
I actually I refilled my own coffee
today coz I brought in I got a big jug
of spring water and I got a water cooler
that I put in that has hot and cold
water and then I got the coffee maker
all set up because we don't have running
water at the news all right so okay but
yeah so this is this is fresh brewed
right here in studio E first cup of
coffee hosting us right here there's a
lot of first times that are gonna happen
for a while and yeah yeah PHP oh here we
go
no no no no don't don't worry remember I
mentioned that I would really like to be
able to you know build a service do more
PHP is that what you're gonna say no no
I wasn't gonna say that but I was going
to say we challenged me to come up with
a solution before you could come up with
a PHP solution well I already did it
I already found a PHP solution online so
that was the script I found this was a
this was a conversion script that would
take a a avatar and convert it to a JSON
format and it's part of their Sabre
suite of tools and it turns out you just
have to get that that program from the
repository and it'll just do the
conversion problem is it's written in
PHP and it's supposed to run on the
command line it's going to make it a
little difficult I mean I can use the
system command in in C to run a command
line arguments not very secure to do it
that way so I'm still thinking about how
I want to do that so you've already got
me beat congratulations well done I
thought you'd be happy about that all
right
do you want to hear how mine worked out
sure I don't think you were here for
coffee break the day that I talked about
it okay maybe you were I don't know you
tell me if you remember I'm sayin that I
send out 1500 emails
yes yeah and I asked you about metering
those emails and you would talk it you
said I wasn't going to do it but I've
actually done it now so it I like grew
it I spent I don't know two hours one
morning at work and so my my script
it is a PHP script but it's running in
bash so it's using the environment
variable to to like I'm using slash user
slash bin slash env PHP as the
environment so I have a comma separated
values file with the name and email
address of everybody that I want to send
this email blast to and that was from an
Excel spreadsheet that I opened up in
LibreOffice and saved it as a CSV file
and then my program goes through
converts that into a PHP array of name
and email address and then cycles
through that generates fresh HTML email
very nicely styled with the company logo
and and really really nice it's got all
their contact info looks looks real
pretty and then it attached the two
files to PDF files and then it sent it
out one per one email every three
seconds over a TLS 1.2 authenticated
SMTP account so it's like not going to
go into their spam folder for not being
authenticated or anything like that so
worked really really well so I sent
1,500 emails in the course of like two
hours I was you know I was listening on
that podcast or I was here on that
podcast and I remember we talked about
the whole majoring thing because I was
concerned that if you sent fifteen
hundred emails and one blast it would
just can't do that
yeah closest I get to sensor so many
emails he said I'm on the I am
managing their the mailing list over the
Norwegian part of the EF f if f branch
of Norway and we have the email at least
have some 800 members each time someone
sends an email it goes to an honor to
the server gets picked up by mailman and
yeah and it blasts off I imagine that
mainland have some metering but standard
postfix is a blasting out every M is
separating into different chunks to so
Robbie that wasn't actually the project
I was talking about what other PHP
preempt your your PHP statements because
that's the only big PHP project that I
did this week yeah okay I think it was I
forget if it was earlier this week or if
it was last week we talked about an
application that I think I'm gonna build
ultimately for the pine with the pine
phone okay oh oh so you're talking about
your project not my project I'm so
self-centered aren't I you tell us
because you said you said I bet you I
could build it in PHP go for it yeah I
didn't I didn't make the connection to
the pine phone because as soon as you
said you're gonna be using your your
contact list I was immediately thinking
about the 1,500 contacts that I just
emailed blasted the because because Bo
can't answer the question the question I
was trying to figure out if you knew if
the phone oak phone Oh which I haven't
looked up yet so it's it's on me
to research that more whether it has any
way of talking to a Cal Deb's I mean a
card observer for RAM for the backing
store for all the contact list do you
know if it's capable of doing that or
unknown well let's see it's written in C
open source well if I if I build this I
won't make it part of our phone Oh what
I would likely do is just build a
separate service that I found I can
integrate if they want to that they can
call on if they wanted to they feel like
better that's probably the best approach
that seems to be the better to me has
always been the best thing to do with
Linux build a tool that does one thing
really really well
don't be building these monolithic tools
you can always string the output of one
pipe it into the input of another to get
what you need
so that's the core UNIX philosophy I
don't think that do one thing well and
they're not having Pike's
you do one thing and then you're going
to cycles into something else and until
you get there is outcome so what I would
like to do is have this thing running
I'm imagining this thing running um
I'm imagining this thing running on the
pine phone and I would imagine that the
thing would have to run as a service
because it's got to be always available
just like iPhone Oh would have to do
right make sense
so the the thing is it's not going to be
something you would run at the command
line and pipe input you know pipe the
output to something else this would be
something that you would have this would
be I'm hearing Peter Peter
Oh Peter I just I just let him play okay
okay it's okay for me to keep talking
man yeah you go ahead I'm gonna mute
Peters mic because it doesn't seem
be paying attention to us all right it's
done okay thank you I had to do that so
this thing would be a service and what
I'm thinking is it will just keep keep a
local database because you don't know
what the connectivity would be to the
backing store yes and the terrible or
caldo backing store so it would keep a
local copy of all the data in its own
database and it's just been a question
of it's been just a question of keeping
them in sync
the idea is that any application not
just iPhone open any other application
that needs this data 10 can call this
service and get what it needs what I'm
thinking of is just returning JSON back
instead of the actual vCard because why
I mean otherwise it would be just a
straight through you know mediation
service right you just be getting the
data directly out of the Cal they're
back in and returning it I think it
would make more sense to return
something that's a little better
structured that can be used in C or in
Joe or whatever right so no reason I see
I like that idea too because then when
you're offline you've got access to your
pal data right right right
and I'm I'm a pay-as-you-go subscriber
so basically my smartphone I use it for
like if the alarm goes off at the studio
the alarm go has to be able to get a
hold of me otherwise it's Wi-Fi only so
yeah I don't have a data plan or
anything like that so and just like that
perfect for that because we really know
yeah it would be we just periodically
seek to the Cal that side that server or
it would do it on demand if you make a
change locally from the phone right and
make a call that would change some data
it would then attempt to propagate that
change back to them so they make a card
app server and if it can't do it then it
says okay I'm going to wait until can be
- right the Wi-Fi comes up and I can
contact the server and away not perfect
I like that's the best plane we'll see
what happens now go build that in PHP
Robbie and it has to be a service now my
copious amounts of free time only coding
I've been able to do is quite literally
just work stuff because it's like I sit
down like - I mean other than M's but
but like as far as like extra projects
it's strictly like I have done okay
when you said new board I was picturing
some single board computer I've never
heard of like a new board what's that
[Laughter]
filling the calendar and filling the
Nikkei with the agenda for the meeting
and pre-populate what was what is going
to be in the wiki so I can just copy and
paste so we have the dates like Monday
December date so and so and we have the
word as in Monday and so the order to do
that for the first Monday of next month
is to use a PHP a date strings - - and
manipulate those so yeah cuz they're
closest
as I kept a PHP encoding I use it for
virtually everything you guys see this
thing here this is kind of neat can you
see that looks like a string that's only
yes so this is a cake ASB thirteen point
one inch touchscreen Raspberry Pi case
so it has a Raspberry Pi 3 B+ on the
back of it I don't know if you guys can
can you still see yeah yeah yeah so it's
got the PI on the back and then it's got
HDMI output to go into the touchscreen
and everything else and I've got it
connected to my Wi-Fi and I've got it
using a Bluetooth keyboard so that I can
do that so I've got this four mouse
right can you guys see the screen yeah
yeah that's that's a terminal window
that I'm moving around there and then
I've got this four keyboard and then
what I'm doing so I've got the tascam DP
24 SD this mixer it has USB connectivity
but I can't get a cable all the way to
the broadcast server to connect it so
and the USB connectivity isn't for audio
it's for files so it stores everything
there's an SD card in the back of it
nice so but every time I'm finished the
show I have to take out the SD card plug
it into the server and then copy the wav
files off of the board in order to work
on the video so instead what I'm going
to do is it has USB connectivity for the
filesystem so it'll show up as an
external hard drive so I'm going to
connect that to the Raspberry Pi on the
kick ASB screen with a USB cable and
then use the Wi-Fi to connect it over
samba the two of the broadcast ray you
said some CIFS okay do you want me to
use it's a Windows machine machine is
your problem right
I got I got a I'm not gonna use NFS on
Windows I got to use CIFS or Samba so
but that will give me direct access to
the built-in storage on the tascam so
when we record a show I can just
immediately start editing through the
Samba share I don't have to copy any
files or drag anything I can just as
long as the mixer is on it'll have
access through this computer but I use a
samba for sharing files it's one thing
it's easier to control
in my opinion and the other thing is
that if the NFS server noise and inertia
is mounted then the system it tries to
use the shared drive the system is in
danger of locking up until there until
the server is back up so yeah and that
can happen for sure in this case I don't
think it'll happen cuz I'll just mount
it an ell map it as a network drive so
it'll just say can't connect if it's not
there
so should be alright yeah so that'll be
a cool setup
I think Peter tried to say something a
little before
oh yeah we had to meet Peter we had to
mute your microphone for a moment
because you were you were talking while
while vp9 was talking and you weren't
talking to us so you can unmute your
microphone if you want to say hi wave if
you don't wave if you're not able to do
that and all do it there he goes hi
Peter
bye Kenai hey I made a very big bad
surprise because I bought one from a
certain English company and when you
turn the pot up and down for the voltage
it used to go up to a 12 volts I usually
go up to 20 volt and down again the back
Rachel and above was terrible
I'm just waiting for a train to go by
Peter yeah didn't catch the last part
you've got the power supply and then the
dog barked and the phone rang yeah
he has muted as microphone so maybe
there's too much noise at the moment so
maybe p9 yes sir so I posted your
question on the pine film forum thank
you sir and so far only one guys
responded and and he doesn't know I
don't know I never tried it okay fine
you're saying that you know you can with
Fache you can integrate with next cloud
and Google accounts you can import
contacts and calendar stuff from that
but I told him I wanted to know if you
could sync with private contact card
servers and kalyn on servers is that
what you mean yes sir that's correct
yeah comment about next cloud though
because next cloud can be self hosted
right yeah right well I'm actually on
the Oh phone Oh website right now trying
to figure out what the capabilities are
be really surprised if something like
that wasn't already written though me
too that's why I'm sort of hesitating to
build it initially I definitely want to
go look to see what yeah first and
there's no point reinventing the wheel
yeah I think what's interesting about
the pine phone is because it's going to
be running true Linux
you know there's CalDAV connectors and
stuff out there for Linux so if those
could be installed on the pine phone I
think it would it'll just work right
well they have to work without finally I
mean the thing is right phone there has
to be able to call them and if the guess
if there aren't any hooks in there for I
find out to call something then it's
just not going to work so they have to
they have to decide what they want to
talk to ya this is the thing right it's
gonna be like a demon or something
that's serving up CalDAV data and most
of the phone applications have their own
implementations of encoding and eternity
the V codes yes and is this going to be
a quick a case of well we'll just
include our own implementation and be
done with it well if they do that okay
that's yet another implementation that
could go back but there's a lot of a lot
of folks who say that the the V code
implementation is inherently broken it
should be done some other way but they
really can't come up with a good
solution so I don't know how response
that and but we got from the forum
reminded me of a comic that I have it's
a from an office and environment and the
boss is having a some kind of problem on
his computer day 30 consoles so it goes
to his assistants asking for help and I
think it ends with five people who can't
solve it and at the end they they find
there an IT manager and he said oh I
just lost week yeah so the program
itself is the running joke of the of the
factory Foreman who had to call in an
external vendor to fix the machine and
so the external vendor came in and and
and and and and looked and tried to
figure it out and had a quiet look at it
and
probably 30 minutes looking at it
finally took a hammer and went on one
piece of the machinist bang it just
started working and he said right
that'll be ten thousand and one dollars
place and the factory manager said he
said well one dollar for the hammer ten
thousand dollars for me to figure out
exactly where to go that's okay Peter
yeah no worries
thank you for muting your microphone you
know you knew that it was getting loud
over here the bad boy was a
disappointment there without both try to
fix it with it examine the idea I'm also
a boobies over another one AB some
transformed I found the other parallel
trends it as well to give you twenty
answered no to 24 volt at 21 years so it
should work better dinner to be the bad
boy that's why I did the other ones
unrepairable there's a family an apology
it was impossible to you you turn the
up a little bit and use of of oh
shoot by Allah by that's what he was
saying they got back a guy will you be
back women oh that could be dangerous
yeah things up observe as I hear anyway
Apple people coming as well better my
friend all that build it up as low as
well in balamani which is far away and
he designed a Dodi of the story about me
when I was a printed
down in the south coast to repair them
like ratios and cleavage and setter
etcetera etcetera and one day the Lord
Mayor's wife Toni you know get again and
she runs an air dryer and there's a big
Jew in Joel in the village she was
growing sobbing the love she was really
upset
bloody they know would kill me today the
capacitor we drive the ones that motor
they know that's all that really did a
drilling job in the guys they went after
air bar battery injured
I didn't any doctor but it really took
her up waking the brand you hope that
they okay but get gravely Wow yeah I'm
I'm hesitant to deal with with the
high-voltage stuff Peter it sounds like
you know a lot more about transformers
and and how to how to create such
circuits but I I wanted I've mentioned
that I've got a 1u server case coming
I'm going to be putting single board
computers in and I relate that to your
story because I'd like to use just a
single power supply or build a single
power supply that I can create a five
volt circuit to power everything that's
in that more in that case and and like
you've got that knowledge I don't have
that knowledge but over in over in
Europe and England as well I believe and
certainly in Australia means is that to
240 volts I believe right and here in
the US and I believe this is true in
Canada as well Robbie
mangez at 110 volts so be aware of that
to remember the name no tellin where
most the oldest houses that were built
70 or something years ago that still
exist they have two mains going through
through the entire house where and one
man is serving 110 boots and the other
is serving 200 and gently and or 240
because they used to go overseas 78
years ago and then by electrical
appliances because they won't know the
first places we've got no power and and
they both appliances that had their
hundred till 110 volts and when the
local power company
and then there and already decided on
what voltage years those houses got
there and both yes and they have it
still to this day right yeah we have not
in Canada - yeah yeah dual voltage
because like our stove like our oven
cookery usually washer/dryer or all -
220 240 so but the main sometimes our
server runs
- right Robbie no not mine but yeah we
have a 240 volt server rack because of
our ups right yeah so you've got
failover do you have a generator as well
not yet
okay so you've got a like a full mains
UPS that like you're probably doing the
outlets in the office yeah big a big big
boy recommend yeah you kids but see this
Robbie yeah I don't know a kid I can see
oh it's like a barrel plug adapter yeah
that's a broke on the backward so not
one of these in the back of your 1u case
yes that's exactly what I was thinking
about and then and then we have a 12 amp
power converter the converts from
whatever voltage to whatever voltage
there's a little dial screw on it and I
think it's like 10 or 12 bucks and it
supports up to 12 amps output so yeah so
you cook you cook whatever power supply
whatever you know like laptop power
brick or printer power brick or whatever
you got laying around that does 12 volts
at some I am or whatever or 24 volts and
then you just that screw on that on the
transformer then you can get that hook
up to the you can put it like a couple
of bus bars they can get at the hardware
store
uh-huh and hook up pigtails from for the
different types of power connectors for
the different single board computers to
that transformer and so basically you're
powering all of them with one power
supply love it
you're one you wreck oh man that's
that's what I'm gonna do dude
absolutely Doughboy ones as well what am
I think usually twelve way stations no
Adele completed bad boy a good we call
of jail break bear to play of everything
but I think it's buying a burner fuel
system as well good my brother lives in
spying I'll be saving the trip average
fuel system as well went to France and I
got a shock and alright and I wore
electric sigh I will get anywhere near
any that you give me because it was
bloody on dangerous and everywhere there
was oh yeah I know you got got a shield
yourself for sure oh if you guys we're a
little bit over time so I got to get
going but oh could I get the link for
that and I'm gonna put that in the cod
the description below that that step
down controller that you're mentioning I
love it I'd love to have a link for that
on America calm so yeah just core to be
great now for those of you watching I'll
put that in the description below if
you're interested in doing something
similar that sounds like a great great
way to do it
have a wonderful afternoon everybody I
got to get back to work and I'll see you
again tomorrow for coffee break is it a
switch down or is it a transfer oboes
gone you'll have to check out the link
check out the link peter post it below
see ya happy Easter YouTube
you
