Michael Okuda tweeted earlier this week
and said Star Trek The Next Generation
hadn't yet found its legs in season one
and two now you just finished season two
you're about to start shooting season
three do you feel that you've found your
legs I would never want to be so
egotistical as to be the person to say
that I I felt like that the show had
found itself in season one I think it
started with about a girl and then into
Priya and then started really hitting
his stride through into the fold which
is when you know Aizen Clair's started
you know the early part of their
relationship I think the second half of
season two we've definitely moved into
where I think Seth wanted to be which is
more of a dramedy you know I think
there's more they come I think that the
beauty of Seth the way he works is that
he's kind of a showman and he he
believes that you know he's in the oh
he's in the old Hollywood model like you
don't you know you work on it and it
involves like like the pile of Seinfeld
versus the gestalt of Seinfeld so I'm
not comparing us to Seinfeld but I'm
saying is that you know it were we're
always trying to better ourselves so I
think we're more like a 10 like we were
yeah this cute little like one flippered
guy and then we got some legs go some
way and a flipper and now we're like
full-bore toad one day we're gonna find
our prince we're just gonna the sexiest
show you guys ever seen
