you can check it out a cat5 TV / Android
so this is the box very nice box I love
the design
now the one thing I will say about this
box is its it is solid and and it's a
fork it's not sort of hitting like I
know he's doing it pulling there it's so
good it's you know this is like a solid
robust box from an unboxing standpoint I
I like this I'm so glad he got into the
box unboxing czar just not the same when
you can't get into the behind I don't
know
so this is this is my kind of manual I
know you guys don't read them but I do
and so it's very easily fold out and
readable so you know Campbell very clean
nice design on what it comes in and I
like the way it's wrapped up so there we
go very sleek and small chat room is
making a note that you forgot to read
the instructions Jeff so how are you
ever gonna know how because I'm not
turning it on right now box very nice
it's got that like that edged looked to
it on Jeff what's the material because
it has like a brushed steel look to it
it it feels metallic in some way
possibly but I think it's plastic
truthfully Wow
I do think it is got a nice link to a
very lightweight like this is this is
very very lightweight it's quite nice go
so the the Quinn Tech's this is a q9s
pro android TV box and it's powered by
the new am logic s 95 x2 system-on-chip
quad-core arm cortex a53 processor and
it's up to 1.8 gigahertz so a lot of
power in a little box so as you can see
it has land plug in it's got optical
audio yeah a little bit closer Cygnus
now you're moving real fast but as soon
as you said land I perked up because
usually you got to do Wi-Fi with these
things that's right yeah no this there's
absolutely
on it which is much nice they're nice
but it's so it will do it's fast well
because it's dual-band 802.1 gigabit a B
G and n Wi-Fi as well it also has
bluetooth 4.1 okay lots of ways to
connect to it you've got the optical
audio which is quite nice you know
especially if you're you know watching a
lot of you know good movies you kind of
want that optical audio I know I love
using my op to quality at home HD output
2.0 just kind of nice a nice little
toggle button for power and that's
actually 4k Jeff yeah not HD that's
right yeah HDMI it is 4k
so it's HDMI 2.1 output it's up to 4k at
60 Hertz with a sec HTTP and HDR support
really okay 5 volts and so there nice
little box see what else comes in here
comes with your HDMI cable very nice
very nice and your power supply oh well
nice very nice nice tactile buttons you
get you volume control very easy to see
it is not a light-up remote to be very
very clear so we'll pull that out of the
box let's see what do we got for
batteries that is a solid so to triple-a
batteries to power that room very very
nice we're not included in the box I
presume no there's no that's that's a
that's a third of the box all right that
is that is the device and so it's got
Android TV 8.1 point 0 kernel version
four point nine point seven six as well
the GPU is a Mallee G 31 mpg which is
quite nice and it's got 4 gig ram ddr4
and you can get two different flash
sizes on this one so you've got the 32
gig and the 64 gig
e ee m MC flash with a microSD slot it's
up to 32 gigs also you can expand it as
well so that's yep so you got that on
the side oh and I see USB so can i plug
in like hard drives and things like
lugging hard drives as well yep okay so
some of the code I'm sorry I want to
point out your phones mmm really most do
not have an earphone port there you go
can you see that cool even even iPhones
don't have so what I like about that is
if maybe you've got this device say in
your bedroom or something you know you
could play wireless headphone jack but
it's got the Bluetooth it's got
bluetooth - yeah so you know that way
you can listen in the quietness of your
bed and not disturb your partner cool so
as far as the codecs that are supported
you've got the vp9 which profile - up to
4k 60 frames a second you've got the 10
bit h.265 up to 4k 60 frames a second
the AVS 2 p2 up to 4k 60 frames a second
it just goes on h.264/avc up to 4k now
30 frames a second on that one
h.264 MVC up to 1080p 60 and mpeg-4 ASP
up to 1080p 60 as well as so much more
so lots of codecs that it will play
which is really really good you know one
of the things with this that from a
standpoint when it comes to like YouTube
and stuff yeah is there are some
limitations as far as you know it is 4k
but you're not going to get your 4k feed
out of that because it is Maxima at the
1080p so maybe just the USB is gonna
give us 4k playback yeah is that the
idea so but that's that's the device
it's very very lightweight like this is
a solid design I mean and as an Android
TV user I'm excited about this this is
good Jeff do you have an Android TV box
at home that you use and yes you do ok
so I want to actually let's get you back
around here we're gonna actually take a
really quick break and Jeff we're
hook this up and we're gonna take a look
at this see what it looks like out of
the box Jeff being experienced with
Android TV this is a great opportunity
for us to see how this device performs
and I should mention this is a very
affordable device so you mentioned
there's two different models available
yes and both of them are under 50 bucks
Oh
so with the build quality and everything
else let's fire it up and see if it's
really if it's worth it that's yeah oh
yeah that's definitely plastic but it's
got a like a brushed steel look to it oh
yeah cool well we're gonna be right back
stick around for a limited time get your
hands on limited edition shirts from the
category 5 TV Network these high quality
shirts are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV Jeff we've got it all
hooked up yes yeah I don't even know
that you can't even see it on the set
here but what we've done I'm just gonna
jump right in here because we've just
had to put it right here because that's
where kind of our power is here so I
have plugged in Ethernet I've plugged in
HDMI output and the power and shall I
just flip this on Jeff if you want to
hit the laptop yeah okay and it's on and
I'll just set it back down and let's see
what what happens okay
I'll be right up I want to I almost want
here tin tacks so one of the things when
it comes to Android boxes that I have
found is you can have a very long boot
time okay my Android box at home I
forget the brand but it's an eight
ninety five and it takes me 30 to 60
seconds to boot up all right anyone
timing that we're in I was about 12
seconds was it that's pretty fast
welcome to 2011 time travel yeah that's
so we're gonna figure that out so it is
an infrared based remote all right I'm
gonna switch back here so that they can
see so it's not a matter of like yeah
yeah yeah putting it that way and
working so he's not a fam it's well yeah
that's not a Roku so but we did find
some batteries that we threw it in there
so let's just write how this thing
performs okay right back over there okay
so look at the data's back automatically
fixed okay so from a responsiveness
instant based on the remote oddly enough
mine at home there's a very slight delay
of probably half a second Wow yeah but
this is this is pretty instant so does
come of Google Play oh nice
no clue what that is I don't even
recognize that symbol what looks like a
play icon yeah it looks like a music
type thing but so you can see up in the
top corner there just above the browser
Wi-Fi icon you've got the Ethernet icon
and it's green telling you that you are
connected to the Ethernet
nice okay Bluetooth off USB connection
is off and battery and or no that's SD
card SD card EMC ok so let's take a look
at the settings
yeah I'm keen to see like what kind of
stuff we've got here oh we have the
network so your your basic Android menu
your screensaver all that come so now
date and time can we set the timezone as
I notice that it's Alec GMT date and
time use a network provided time yeah
okay so that's how it got the time okay
perfect yeah but it is that they've got
the set time zone yeah see look at that
it's it's right GMT that's right so
let's set it to Toronto time or New York
Eastern oh there you go perfect
so time at the top left 7:25 p.m. take
it off the 24-hour format although it
wasn't 24 on the top mm-hmm it was
showing 7:25 p.m. oh that's cool yeah
okay let's back out you got like a back
button on there yeah there's a back
button on the remote I like look at
times good sweet okay so going back into
the settings now language keyboard
accessibility yeah you can add a
Bluetooth accessory find my watch okay
if you're interested to see yeah we have
a Bluetooth keyboard right here okay can
we like I want to know can you set it to
like pairing mode it's currently in
pairing mode let's see if it up all
right
cuts searching for accessories before
pairing your Bluetooth device make sure
they're in pairing mode now you sure
tested to my phone oh okay turn that
keyboard may not be able to connect to
multiple devices yep so I just turned it
off on my device now connect and PC okay
okay
flashing trying again it's lookin come
on buddy come on pick it up you can do
it is this a browser so I'm very
interested to see if it does connect but
I'm not your keyboards not in pairing
mode Jeff it was a pairing one second
okay it's flashing okay now some pairing
mode again so
this is the fun of doing a live thing
and I've stopped again it's not picking
up
that's your keyboard though it's not
we've never paired it with anything no
that's right other than your phone so
yeah it doesn't see any of you wanna see
wanting to connect since you okay so
what do you do one do that to press one
three hold in PC okay four oh there now
it's impairing I had it not impairing
cuz now you got the fast flash Jack read
the instructions progress says right on
it Jeff you know what fair enough I'll
take that one on the chin don't be daft
yeah it's not so can you push back and
then like go to search for accessories
again yep so add accessory yeah give
this try again it is flashing oh all
right keyboard okay see Jeff it helps if
you actually put your keyboard in
pairing mode okay with keyboard okay so
punch in two seven five nine eight four
Sasha I'm gonna let Sasha do that okay
two seven five nine eight four then
press enter and then press Enter it says
okay paired its paired oh look at that
so now can you actually so I'm just so
looking at the keyboard with the
navigation they're up and down Jeff okay
yeah okay my brain my she's looking at
the screen for kilometres away there's
one right here I would be interested to
know if we that's cool
connect with a bluetooth mouse oh here
we go
if that would make like if you then get
a mouse on the screen I don't know so
but anyway so going back now one of the
things I'm interested about is security
and restrictions yeah so allow
installation of unknown sources and then
verify apps okay so that's all it is for
security cool so now be
cause this is an Android TV device I
need to say this you especially if
you're gonna be using the browser yeah
you need to have protection on your
device it is and then so you know get
ESET throw or something and throw it on
your device
ESET has a free Android TV protection so
you can actually if you go into Google
Play you should be able to find that so
we don't need to do that but if you do
have to sign all you got to sign it
because we don't have like a we don't
have our Google account set up or
anything like that yet where are you now
games so I went to movements and the
name okay then to add but it gives me
more than just that so I mean okay so
this is like these are the apps that are
currently installed and you can add them
it's basically like a menu okay so DMC
that's what the media is okay so in the
bottom of this screen yeah how when icon
down what that icon was that is Katie MC
click it I want to see it Cody requires
access to your device media of course we
want it to have access to our media
because if I plug in a USB flash drive
that's full of movies and stuff I want
it to be able to access those now that
was version 18 point Oh Leia I don't
know what versions out right now so
you'd probably Sasha do you want to look
for what version is KDM see right now so
you may have to do an update pending on
but that could like that was nice and
seamless yeah so we're looking at
everything out of the box
is there any way wow it looks really
good
maybe we should pull up YouTube or
something like that and see if it works
just so that we can actually click on
some media but navigation seems pretty
pretty sleek what are you pushing right
now I was in the back also okay back out
so I actually have to turn coach yeah
it's typical that's kind of how it works
that's power options exist all right
cool okay so let's go to youtube yeah my
category quickly this loads yeah
I want to ok I've I've seen some oh now
you're using the keyboard now oh there's
voice as well what's sweet there's there
wasn't a microphone on this is there I
don't think so
is there I don't know you pushed
something he's pushing but it's all over
the place it's ok so that's Google isn't
responding so we're gonna close that up
ok alright so we're gonna go back up to
search tap to speak okay that's
interesting
are you actually clicking on this search
by voice no but okay hold on okay what
was that again tap to speak oh test I
don't think there's a mic go to YouTube
one give us videos can we just like 5
does like us I want oh can you just type
well that's what I started before but oh
I think what you're doing is you're
pushing I'm just guessing I'm taking the
remote from him okay now we have a
cursor ward what oh your control okay
see Jeff I can hack stuff okay yeah oops
oh okay well you got you got the right
place anyway
there you go okay so okay so can we can
I go down now with the cursor yep sweet
so we got a live stream we're gonna
totally live stream this is gonna be
crazy
brilliant I you know I gotta say I wish
I knew that we were unboxing an Android
TV box like I have a remote at home yeah
it's got a full keyboard on it's got a
touchpad it's Bluetooth enable that I
use for my Android box so I'm not happy
right now
oh yeah okay is that because it's live
maybe well this has got USB and
everything else - Jeff so I could plug
in a keyboard or whatever else yeah
exactly
let's just click on like one of our
videos instead of the live stream
because I think that's gonna cause a
rift in the space-time continuum
does this work did you oh it plays it
plays our ads that's good hahaha
Wow well look at it's got a skip out
down on the side there
just like YouTube let's go go go they
get there I think if I had a mouse
plugged in it'll be a little more
pleasant to work with but I agree but it
works in this plan look at that
no I'm I'm hearing sound well because my
speaker is plugged in my screen is
plugged into HDMI oh right right
it has HDMI audio but that's cool but no
that's up that's a very responsive
device a few bucks
under yeah so check them out cat five
dot TV slash Android you can pick one of
those up
[Applause]
