covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias on episode 648 just seven
weeks ago we talked about how Apple
plans to drop Intel for its own
processors for future Mac's but it came
as a surprise Monday that these
processors will be ARM based it's a big
move and perhaps the biggest addition
the transition to arm power chip Springs
is the ability for iOS and iPad apps to
run natively on Mac OS in the future
apple says most apps will just work
meaning you'll be able to run native Mac
OS apps alongside native iOS apps
side-by-side Apple is promising new
levels of performance and far less power
consumption when it with its move to
in-house processors Apple is designing
its own range of SOC for Mac's
with unique features to Mac but a common
architecture across product lines
Microsoft is working on office updates
for the new Mac silicon and word in
Excel are already running natively on
the new Mac processors with PowerPoint
even using Apple's metal tech for
rendering Apple has always been also
been working with Adobe to get their
photo editing editing apps up and
running on the new chips Mac OS Big Sur
will also include a new version of
Rosetta Apple used Rosetta previously
for the PowerPC shift intel-based macs
and rosetta 2 will automatically
translate execs existing apps at install
time this means that even if developers
haven't fully updated their apps they
should still work without modification
Apple is also using virtualization for
running versions of Linux on these new
Macs apple's transition to arm follows a
similar move by Microsoft to experiment
with Windows on arm nearly a decade ago
Microsoft started this work ahead of the
Windows 8 release in 2012 and even
released the windows RT operating system
that was designed for ARM based hardware
Microsoft has since transitioned Windows
10 to arm as well
Apple will release the first Mac with
apple silicon at the end of this year
and it expects the transition to take
too
new Intel powered Macs are still in the
pipeline so Apple isn't moving
exclusively to ARM based max just yet
