[Music]
everybody welcome to the coffee break
for what is it January 3rd 2020 oh what
the heck is going on the apocalypse I
tell you what gotta be good yeah
isn't it like yeah it's May night I'm
just kidding
but oh not a pleasant thing to wake up
to today I am yeah liam is doing some
coding today so this is this is his
project I don't know if you guys can see
the Lua that he's working on
do you want to tell them about it here
I'm gonna give I'm gonna give him my
headset so he can talk to you guys about
what he's what he's building yeah I'm
making San Mae a third system in thing I
like to play like there's this game that
people get to make games and you get to
play them and there's a game I like so
I'm making a fan-made version nice it's
like it's um game where there's a whole
bunch of fake that chase you with bad
coding 9 yeah I used to be nine for a
whole year at one point
pretty cool nice blue eye Lua what good
way yeah I told them I was nine for a
whole year you guys having a good
weekend so far
you guys aren't dealing with snow I was
planning on barbecuing but that's not
happening
well I mean it could but I probably will
Oh Who am I kidding I'm Canadian I've
just been editing editing editing videos
going up when you're here yeah you let
2042 get right to that don't drop any a
in the movie and you get talked to via
email to not take it we'll take a break
get up yeah I'm enjoying the Sun being
up later that's for sure
yeah yeah it's nice it's nice to know at
the barbecue these days like the past
month and it's still bright out yeah
when I get home I get home from work
like 6 o'clock at night right so yes and
I want to stand out at the barbecue but
in during the winter its pitch black I
burn everything
yeah yeah I was out spending money today
I have in between my my property and the
field yeah did you get like a lawn mower
type thing or is it like something like
a weed whacker or something yeah hi bp9
good morning how are you sir
excellent excellent happy Saturday well
thank you happy Saturday to you too now
paid oh did you get a video with that oh
yeah that's what we call a weed whacker
yep so do all right what you guys call
it there that is a that's a pretty big
duty one no big heavy-duty one yeah you
don't wanna chew whack weeds or enemies
you strap that on don't you you actually
put a put a shoulder strap over that
yeah it looks like it's got a built-in
camera gimbal I've got a lot of duty one
because I don't have I don't have that
much to weed whack well I do but it's
too much to take on even with a big
heavy-duty weed whacker like this Oh to
do it we live right in town and we just
have a small small bottle and so we
don't really I do have just like a
standard which is a good battery power
- blood fedorov blog which you just full
of strays very tall trees I'm a nurse
that would have liked them in another
good like on the garlic there's the
elevator it was gonna be a building
block just sitting there waiting for the
broad to go up hmm where do you wait to
get plasma vision would you make your
circle to get around there oh that's
true and that's true in England and
Ireland and all that you can't do much
at all or almost anything at all run and
I've destroyed Canada we have counsel
without counsel permission right yeah
yeah what they were doing I really years
ago they were still do it without
permission and capital go around it or
they were given to the English with full
of money
and that the other the other cheeks or
thing you know when they don't do a
yellow that they brought up with them
down and same situation now and it
doesn't happen
they probably that day the fifteen years
ago this was happening this piece of
property that it's got a very tall trees
in each poplars which have 13 aged oh
I've got my ten on one over by the way
and doublet above the tree he made it up
it translates just give my second just
clearing the bow bow boy was that red
leaf in the way I bought a pole saw last
year which is the the greatest thing
being able to reach up and take down
branches that are 15 feet above yeah
yeah off to the side a little bit
not having to step off open another
night on the job or next door to cut
them the trait and which that remote
watch cartoons they were you playing
popular and I quote very big they use
them for copies in other words they grab
and traditional eyes and he would one
toilet Jordy the castle we never go them
to do it they don't really survive a
truly global trade realistic on that and
will be very well my realizes a big
burden for me they've been again finally
in Lopes late more like that bearable I
care cuz I'm yeah yeah the work there
but something I want right now it's
firewood I think that's I'm going to put
that on my shopping list today I have to
go to the store so thanks for reminding
me Peter because that I was thinking
like with being that we can't really go
out or do anything like I can't take the
kids anywhere so I second maybe a fire
campfire in the backyard would be a nice
way to pass time these at the beach as
well while they build up their page as
well
would you eat yet beach which either
starter yeah yeah no it has either
filled it's a really good to be out in
the guy dig up in the field it's a brown
color pages between go a Bolton trade
Thank You fella guess what at the at the
grocery store you can buy just bags of
firewood like you get like six logs in a
bag for five bucks or something
well Dan Nigro idea to draw on that
right and made my relation tell you to
do it - I ain't ready the job oh you
Chris but he was right he didn't may be
able to do it with we used to go and in
this I'm I used to think we we don't do
it now so yeah yeah the hard thing right
now is availability of
stuff like it's like you get what you
get what they're selling and that's it
I'm not gonna be I'm not going to be
going to a variety of stores I'm sure
like if it was a normal year if it
wasn't 2020 I could pull up somewhere
that would have very nice kiln dried
firewood and I'm just gonna get whatever
the grocery store is selling me Mother's
Day so I got a I got to make a nice
dinner for Becca tomorrow so I don't I
don't I got to grab a couple things yeah
yeah I go television would add quite a
player Bobby you know was all wood here
did you get that email I'll send about
the dog radio garden is very good joke
friend of mine yeah I saw you were
saying that you really liked the radio
garden feature that I talked about on
category-five this week but you saw you
saw a couple of am stations but mostly
FM you were saying it yeah yeah yeah but
we are legion diligent and i indicted
today and they are there yeah and I
actually corrected myself live because I
said I was about to say they were FM and
AM and then I realized no I listened to
live Ireland quite a bit and they're
just an online radio station so if you
go over the the east coast of Ireland
well you'll see why Maryland did one in
Dublin on the TruBlood
like in the area and there was a deal
between me and are connected directly
and no collision drill on the using wave
by yo garden and it they like one second
for the interesting thing is we got to
Belfast is another one in Beaufort on I
am that is a second device and scribe
wrong yes that's a cool service guy
should solve a p9 have you seen it yet
no I have not but I should crank up my
shortwave receiver I haven't done that
in a while should well what what Peters
talking about is this um it's a website
radio dot garden and I showed it on her
show this week it's really really neat
but it just like they culminated
thousands of broadcast radio stations
from around the world that is not too
far because they do survey like that way
you can go down into they do a Google
map we can get that into my date oh yeah
oh yeah yeah they tap into a 3d
javascript library and they put the
earth together and they've used bing
satellite imagery so you can zoom right
in down into the road and then either
his neck and then you can see whether
tower for the local radio space movement
listen when they do they're good when
they do Google Maps here they saved it
everybody complained either way because
I didn't work Google Maps spying on them
they did when they went to when towing
to look in the wrong place
who's that half a mole up a load in
drove it over field yeah yeah they they
they gotta closely rope good God my
father's car but he didn't get me I I
looked at Google Maps one day close to
where I used to work and sure enough the
Google Google Maps car had taken a it
was following my leaf so there was a
whole series of pictures where where my
leaf show that it's probably not there
now because it's I don't think it's
think it's up to David that picture
would be it would have been analyzed at
every couple years right but you can
actually you can use the historical view
and you can go back in time which is a
really cool feature because as Google
Maps gets older and older like you can
now go back five six years in time on a
historical graph so you can look at a
construction site where there's a
building and then go back in time and
you can see that they were building it a
year ago and then the year before that
it was just a field like you can
actually see that then you landed on
that on street view as well or just on
Google Maps
yeah I think it's only on Street View oh
it's like it's the updated imagery based
on every time the car so it becomes like
a historical point in time and they have
arranged yeah if you could plan it out
ahead of time and figure out the route
that is going to be taking place and
they did some planning and some checking
and calculating and
and they managed to when they when the
tractor was driving past the speed
camera at the 30 kilometers an hour the
motorcycle was passing in the in the
lane next next next to the tractor in
almost 300 kilometres perizaad so the
traffic camera of now already in their
office they have they have the frame we
frame the speed of the truck right north
on motorbike speed camera so they have I
thought you were gonna say the other way
around oh I thought you were gonna say
that the speed camera did not even
tripped because the because it read the
speed of the tractor not the speed of
the motor by camera through 30 frames a
second
they wouldn't even see the motor body
[Laughter]
similar thing in Australia to I have a
similar thing in Australia to know if
they have it in other countries in
Australia apart from speed cameras which
are universal you also have what are
called red light cameras so that if you
if you ever run a red light runs the red
yeah especially the green to yellow to
red and you try to beat that beat that
red light if you if you miss time it
then happy to two photos one of you at
the at the stop line and the other as
you're going through if that lights red
you get snapped and takes a photo of
your registration and you get a fill in
the mail
and people were throwing their seam that
would be that would be a disapproval for
sure the liam is making huge progress
with his video game I can see what is he
building i you snapped a photo on
instagram or something of something that
he was coding what has he got now he's
got like a big house that he's got going
no any scope do you want to show me the
code Liam we probably don't see it from
here what is it
Java or C++ doing Lua what's that Liam
small really a phone so they can hear
you cool he's putting cameras in there
in the house is you said Lua is that for
mind test or something or no no it's
he's using the robot roblox open studio
okay so programming language programming
language yeah I don't know no idea I've
been meaning to look into Lua to see if
I can't do anything about programming on
what I do remind wrist yeah and what I
remember from being a mind test
developer is it's a very efficient
language like it runs really efficiently
it works with a litter box well this is
the interpreter door
that or is it compiled Robbie do you
remember you know I want to say it runs
it from the script but but yet it can be
compiled so I'm not sure on that I think
it can be either or because I mean I'll
make the blanket statement and I'll let
you'll discuss but I would say that a
compiled language something that you're
compiling to machine code is going to be
far more efficient oh no scribbling so
and maybe you're maybe you're right
there maybe it is a script language
because it's it seems like if I was to
compare it to anything that I've worked
in I would say it falls close to Java
maybe like when you took a two kids we
call it here in Canada yeah yeah we
don't have those kind of hats so I don't
even know what we call them here we did
snow
Oh bp9 yes sir yes sir are you telling
me that you still got snow even now in
May oh look at that oh you sure do look
at that oh boy but it's May
it's almost a wandering eye on severely
depressed you know I'm muting peering
Peter Iban based on better way
in the backyard somebody walks by in a
blue t-shirt oh my god well I've got a
sweater and sweatpants and there's two
layers on all right 20 degrees I'm not
gonna tell you what my temperature here
is cuz you know I don't want to be
banned as well so okay so by contrast by
contrast my server room at work is
warmer from what's outside
I actually had I had to turn off the
server room AC unit yesterday at work
because it had frozen up oh boy
because it was it was below zero outside
and it draws the outside air yeah so we
got temperature warnings in the server
room because the AC unit was frozen to
cold the AC was too cold coming in from
out like draw in the air in from outside
so it froze up and they couldn't blow
cold air into the unit but you could
still just turn the fans on right still
get cold air from outside filter core 98
yeah so I turned off the AC and turn on
the blower yeah you're just not getting
the benefits of the condensation and you
know lowering the humidity that sort of
stuff so yeah
oh yeah Sunday on Sunday I took the kids
and my wife out for a hike and we were
all I was in a t-shirt like it was
beautiful
mm-hmm I got a little bit of sunburn on
the back of my neck Wow and here we are
it's six days later and we're back to
winter well you know that's true in the
morning yes yeah yeah it certainly nicer
there guys I gotta get going but it's
been nice chatting sorry it was a bit
late but better late than never I guess
happier today that particular game
think when did you start that one Liam
yesterday or day before two days ago and
he's done a couple other games as well
so this one he's done he started at two
days ago and I see on the screen he's
now he's developing character so I'm
gonna dis tip over here it's kind of a
final so he's putting characters into
the game now and I'm not sure you tell
him well done Robbie cuz it was oh yeah
even great great progress on that yes
this is this is the start of his game
that he's just developing and it's his
fan fan made recreation of piggy yeah
now is this a game or is this a yeah is
this a game or is this a motion motion
capture or you know he's making an
actual playable multiplayer game
excellent and then he plays them with
his cousin online because they can't
they can't get together so he creates
the games and then they want in and play
he's got a lot of spare time this yeah
what's gonna say he's got nothing but
spare time right now no no this is
extracurricular stuff if it's not gone
by tomorrow I think I'm gonna go out
with a flame thrower I want I want to be
able to go for a hike tomorrow yeah
tomorrow is supposed to be 14 degrees
Celsius so it'll be wonderful and we
guys get a run I got a lot to do this
afternoon I got to be ready for I got to
finish editing this week's show because
I'm not done that yet I still have four
more videos plus I have to publish the
actual episode which hasn't gone up yet
and I got a bunch of other stuff to do
so have a great day I'll see you
tomorrow it'll be good to see you man
take care - so you're sober so your food
