[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
on Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category-five dot TV
welcome to the show
it's great to have you joining me I'm
Ravi Ferguson the host of the show the
founder of the show the producer of the
show and the only guy here cuz hey this
is where we're all just doing our best
aren't we throughout this wild time in
the history of our planet and our race
and Here I am at category 5 technology
TVs studio e going it alone once again
this week however my wife Becca is here
again this week pre-recorded for our
news room segment and I'm looking
forward to having her join us in a
little bit a little bit of time as we as
the show goes on I just want to say that
this broadcast would not be possible our
studio would not be possible without the
support of our Kickstarter backers our
patrons and the donors who have simply
decided to throw a little something in
the tip jar in particular I want to say
thank you to Scott Burke as Scott
Barkley
pardon me Scott I apologize Scott
Barkley ronbo thank you guys so very
much Jerry Kowalski thank you for your
support
Jonathan Garvey as well thank you sir we
appreciate you and I appreciate your
Jen's Nissen thank you Jen's
and I appreciate you supporting
category-five technology TV bollock now
ski thank you sir you know I appreciate
you so very much and Bill Marshall same
goes for you my man thank you for your
support of category 5 technology TV it's
folks like this like these people who
I've mentioned who just have decided to
back up category 5 technology TV and see
us through what could have been a very
very difficult time none of us saw the
pandemic coming I mean we all knew that
there was stuff going on but to this
extent to the fact that hey we moved in
the midst of this and then suddenly
we're basically on lockdown and I'm here
doing my level best to set things up and
get a show operational for you and it's
taking time and it will take time to get
back to our normal self of course the
team can't be here with me and and I'm
really I'm really digging the idea of
having Jeff and Henry come back to to
our live broadcast and being here in our
new space I mean this is going to be all
very novel for them they're gonna be
here at our new studio for the very
first time other than you know Jeff was
here on move day but I mean that was
just boxes but now things are actually
starting to come together so but thank
you to those of you who have supported
this project and this show after you
know 12 13 years of broadcasting almost
every single week with very few
exceptions it's really cool to know that
you back us up and that you want to see
this show go on and it's going on even
if it's not exactly the way it's gonna
be
3-4 months from now but I'm doing that
I'm doing everything to bring you a
great show every single week so thank
you so very much for being here Before
we jump into the show today I want to
remind you to subscribe to us on YouTube
you can click that Bell as well that's
going to make sure that you get the
notifications every time we are live or
any time that we post new videos which
is pretty regularly now now that we're
back so you want to get the
notifications for that
I'm sitting here in my production room
we call this the bridge and in this
production studio there's a lot of
ambient noise and it really now that
we're in our new space and I have a
separate studio space for the show to
broadcast from it's amazing how much
noise you hear when you're in this room
because you don't hear it in the other
room and I say that because in our
previous studio studio D all these
things were in the same room as the
cameras and the microphones and
everything else so that ambient noise
that you're hearing right now we used to
have to deal with that every single week
there's going to be a time coming when
we no longer have to deal with that and
part of that is doing my best to reduce
the noise now the main studio area
there's no noise there's I'm not
allowing any moving parts in that room
there are no moving parts that is
fantastic
think about that for a second from a
broadcast perspective from a studio
perspective I don't allow any motors or
fans or anything else in that room
everything's got to be either passive or
SSD that kind of stuff so with that in
mind I do sometimes have to work in here
and I do have to as you're seeing this
week and last sometimes I have to
broadcast from this space too and it'll
be cool when we have everything set up
the way it's going to be and and this
can be a bit of a studio as well that I
can broadcast maybe some tech tips and
show you how broadcasting works and I
know one of the features that we're
gonna be doing is demonstrating and
showing you how I produce a show every
single weekend DaVinci Resolve combined
with Telestream Wirecast our task cam
over here and everything you're going to
get to know how everything works so this
room will be a big part of that but
there's a lot of room noise
room noise is the enemy of video
broadcasters podcasters radio room noise
is the worst we always have to deal with
you know in the next studio I don't have
the ambient noise of motors and fans and
things but I do have echo right now that
I have to deal with so we'll deal with
that with some some sound soundproofing
and and some foam that that will help
with that putting up drapes and things
will also assist with that and
inevitably getting some furniture and
that's not just solid wood will be
helpful as well because there's a lot of
echo but in this room you can hear
there's a lot of ambient noise from the
server rack that's behind me it's really
important that runs the show it keeps
everything going it runs a lot of our
services and our internal infrastructure
however it is generating a lot of noise
and a fair bit of heat this is the
warmest room in the house I'll tell you
that but it's pretty noisy and so what
I've done this week look is I have set
down a h4n this is a zoom h4n which I've
got on a tripod or a mic stand here this
is recording with a mic sensitivity of
40 so the the volume level if you have
an h4 n I've got this set to 40 so it's
picking up the ambient noise right now
it's not broadcasting to you I'm going
to switch to this microphone in just a
second but it's picking up that ambient
noise so that we can see those levels
I've turned off the auto mic levels on
the h4 n so what you're gonna get to
hear and see visually in goldwave are
the wave tables directly from this with
no resampling and no changes to the
levels so that's exactly the same from
point A to point B I mean they're it's
not going to change the levels of the
microphone that's gonna help us to be
able to see tonight what kind of a
difference we can make by changing a
simple fan can attend all our part
reduce the noise in such a way that it's
actually worth our while
so this is our backup drive it's an a
raid 3500 dash GP these things are
fantastic it's a mirroring unit so we've
got a master Drive and a secondary Drive
and I can pull this secondary drive it's
a 10 terabyte hard drive I pull that out
pop in a different one and a tree images
and I have an exact mirror at all times
of my backup then the server is down
here and this is actually the storage
and the Samba shares and everything else
and that's generating a lot of noise too
so right now let's just check out the
levels of everything running the way it
normally would I'm going to shut up for
a second and let you hear that and see
that visually
okay so that's the ambient noise just
coming off of everything the server the
backup everything running I'm gonna halt
the server which I've just done let's
listen
waiting for it to shut down
and it's still powered on so I'm going
to now power that off here we go
okay so with the server off there is a
notable difference but there's still a
lot of noise coming off just the backup
unit
all right so I'm going to power that off
and we'll see how the room sounds
what a difference a okay so let's get
this out of the way and I'm gonna
actually remove this backup drive and so
what I'm gonna do is we're gonna throw a
little nine dollar fan in here to
replace the stock fan and the intention
today it's not a sophisticated tutorial
or anything like that it's not overly
geeky however something that we don't
often think about is that there are very
simple and very affordable solutions
that we can put into place that can help
with this ambient noise it doesn't just
apply for me here at the studio it
applies for you at home if you've got
computers that maybe you're generating a
lot more noise then they need to be
maybe a solution is to look at those
fans and see if you can cut that down
look at the hard drives and say hey I've
got a lot of spinning hard drives in
there right now let's instead replace
those with some Kingston SSDs which are
they have no moving parts and they make
absolutely no noise they also
incidentally generate less heat which is
a nice bonus as well so this backup unit
is generating in my opinion way more
noise than I should be having from a
backup unit I mean it's it's my backup
it's incredibly important however it is
just my backup it's just two hard drives
spinning away generating that much heat
but it has to be running a fan at full
capacity speed all the time so the fan
that I got is a pretty popular one it's
an Arctic f8 silent so do keep in mind
it is the silent model and it says on
the Box extra quiet fan and you can see
on the back of this unit it does have a
fan to keep it everything cool so that's
what we're gonna be replacing I feel
like maybe the stock fan is louder than
it has to be
you guys could hear that you could see
that visually how much ambient noise
this thing was generating it's really
really easy to do this kind of it's not
even a repair it would be a repair if
the original fan wasn't wasn't working
in this case I'm replacing a working fan
but it's just a noisy fan alright so
what do we have here we've got some
we've got a tie wrap here that I'm gonna
have to cut I don't even have the
correct tools yet like scissors or wire
snips do not do this at home I'm gonna
be really careful you say that and then
I'm gonna cut my finger real bad I'm not
I'm not don't worry don't do this don't
ever do this I just I'm gonna get in so
much trouble for doing that
I know give me a hard time YouTube
alright so there is the fan and this is
the molex connector for that fan ideally
if I could take this outside and blow it
out with with a camless air something
like that that would be ideal because
there's a lot of dust in there too
Wow alright so let's get into here so
simple folks
but the ultimate test is going to be I
want to know when we've got that
recorder recording so that we can
compare the actual ambient noise this is
generating when you get a fan you can
look at the fan and it will show you
because you wonder which which ways the
fan gonna be blowing and I would have
thought the fan was blowing out this way
but if you look really really closely
see if you can get a fix on that you
guys see that there's actually an arrow
which points the way that the fan is
going to be blowing so that's important
to note it's exactly the opposite of
what I would have thought
so easy install and what I did is I just
I measured first and this is an eighty
millimeter so it was easy enough to find
online and as I say it was nine bucks to
get a hold of this fan so let's get that
in there just can use the same screws it
came with screws too but doesn't matter
they're the same so I'm hoping this is
gonna make enough of a difference here
in this room that my nine dollars is
well-spent the a raid 3500 is a great
backup drive check it out I'll put links
below this one was gifted to me which
was a real blessing by one of our
long-term longtime friends of the show
who unfortunately went out of business
and they said hey would you like that
backup drive and so they gifted it to us
and I've used it ever since and it's
wonderful these are great devices okay
so you notice I had a molex on the old
fan but I've got a three pin on this fan
so I've also grabbed myself a molex to
three pin adapter so just pop your fan
in there and that's just for the a raid
because I knew that the a raid was using
molex and here we go
come on these adapters can be a beast
they're not really just gonna line them
up right okay so let's put this on I'm
not gonna screw it all together just now
just for the sake of good TV because
that's not really all that exciting but
even without the screws we're gonna have
exactly the same ambient noise as with
the screws I don't think that's gonna
affect the accuracy whatsoever of our
test so I'm going to just put this back
on my server rack plug in the SATA cable
eSATA which just goes in the back here
if I can find it wasn't even in the
right place there we are and it's a full
size power cable it's like a computer
cable and if we're ready now this is
still recording and place it right at
the exact same spot and fire up
what a difference oh my goodness I have
to actually make sure that this is
working and it is sure enough she's
blowing air
beautiful all right I am gonna fire back
up the server because the server
generated a lot of noise too and there's
not a lot I can do about that it's an
hour 5:10 they're pretty noisy servers
but let's fire it up just so that I can
compare the ambient noise difference you
can hear that the backup Drive alone
huge difference now let's fire back up
the server this can get loud for a
second because they fire up loud
still notably quieter but let's wait for
it because these servers will those fans
are gonna calm down in a moment they
blow out the dust and everything before
as they're just first booting up once
the drives start flashing that means
it's booting
it's still pretty loud but it's nowhere
near and here you can hear whining them
I can't at least
and there she goes starting the boot up
process
so once it's finished booting we'll have
a pretty good impression as to the
difference that this is made for nine
bucks I can also be doing the same thing
you remember that my laptop computer had
a really noisy fan my ThinkPad and so
I've also ordered a replacement fan for
that which has arrived I haven't gotten
into that but while we're waiting for
that to boot so like this is a really
simple fix that you can just do for a
lot of your devices I mean who would
have thought your backup drive even
let's get into this box though let's see
what they've sent me yeah there we are
there it is so that's the cooling system
for my laptop and that's gonna make that
same amount of difference for for my
laptop computer so you can get these
kind of replacement parts and you don't
have to replace a whole laptop or a
whole backup drive to reduce the ambient
noise so now I'm gonna switch back to
this microphone so that we can hear with
the server running the backup drive
running how does this compare to when I
first started this segment and still
booting it's doing a lot of reading so
it might be a little bit inaccurate
let's there you can hear that it's
slowing down
let's give it just another split second
here you can see the drives are going
crazy so that means it's still in the
boot process
what a difference there I'm gonna in
post-production I'm gonna just go back
over so this is the array Drive by
itself just the backup servers off all
by itself before I replace the fan and
here it is after I replace the fan and
here they are side by side those wave
tables just so you can see the the
difference in the ambient noise alright
so that server still booting still going
through its thing but let's let's get a
look at how the ambient noise altogether
now so the server and the backup driver
back up and running just like they were
before how is that affected
so the verdict for 9 bucks for 9 bucks
we brought down the ambient noise quite
noticeably here in the production studio
it's something I mean we all have
computers sitting next to us and
sometimes they're louder than they need
to be and sometimes we don't even
realize it but listen to your computer
and just see hey could this be a little
bit quieter and maybe replacing the CPU
fan or as I say switching out from a
spinning hard drive to an SSD from
Kingston technology something like that
would make a huge difference to the
ambient noise in the room and it just
makes things so much better for
broadcast it's gonna be a lot better now
that's a noticeable difference it's not
perfect they're still you can still hear
the server but the backup drive is no
longer creating the unbelievable amounts
of noise that it that it was well there
you have it you can look up your
products online I mean get on to B&amp;H
Photo Video is a great place to get
stuff also a marriage riod has a lot of
great fans I've got some fans for my
server case that I'm gonna put in from a
marriage would just check what they've
got you can find them like pretty much
any online store has got this stuff so
really really cheap really really easy
to replace and we did it here we're
ready to head over to the newsroom so
Becca over to you here's what's coming
up in the category 5 TV newsroom Colonel
security updates fix several issues in
ubuntu libre office six point three
point six is the final update to six
point three which is going
Yoel so close firewall falls victim to
the in the wild SQL injection attack
revolutionary new tech means you can
touch things in VR and google has
released the AI code four Tattvas as
open source software stick around the
full details in this week's crypto
corner are coming up
this is the category 5 dot TV newsroom
covering the week stop texting with a
slight linux bias
from the newsroom I'm Becca Ferguson
canonical has published new Ubuntu Linux
kernel security updates for all of its
supported releases to patch several
vulnerabilities discovered lately by
various security researchers affecting
Linux four point one five four point
four and five point three kernels and
several versions of Ubuntu Linux the new
security patch fixes an issue found in
the Intel Wi-Fi driver a race condition
discovered in Linux kernels virtual
terminal implementation a flaw
discovered in the floppy driver and a
race condition in the block IO tracing
implementation all these issues could
allow a local attacker to either crash
the system or expose sensitive
information the new kernel update also
patches a stack buffer overflow
discovered in the v host net driver this
could allow a local attacker with the
ability to perform ioctl calls on dev v
host net to cause a denial of service
crashing the system that's just to name
a few of the critical security issues
that have been patched canonical urges
all users to update their installations
and install the new kernel versions as
soon as possible new kernel versions are
also available for raspberry pi devices
cloud environments om processors
Snapdragon processors as well as Amazon
Web Services Microsoft Azure cloud
Oracle cloud Google cloud platform and
Google container engine systems keep in
mind when updating a production system
that a system reboot is required for the
security issues to be corrected so it's
best to schedule a short downtime to
perform this update the document
foundation has announced the release of
Libre Office six point three point six
as the sixth and final update of the six
point three Series which will reach
end-of-life at the end of this month
coming more than two months after Libre
office six point three point five the
libre office six point three point six
update is here to provide users of the
libre office six point three series with
one last set of bug and regression fixes
it also aims to improve document
compatibility the libre office six point
three series is target
Enterprise deployments and production
environments when Labour office 6.4 is
already available 6.3 is the only only
version currently recommended by the
document foundation for organizations
that said libre office 6.3 is set to
reach end-of-life on May 29th 2020 and
this is the last update if you're
running Libre Office 6.3 in your
organization it would be best to update
to version six point three point six as
soon as possible and start considering
upgrading your six point three
installations to the six point four
series in the coming weeks the current
release of labor office is six point
four point three which will be
considered ready for enterprise
deployment by the next point release
which should be out by the end of the
month until then you can get either
version from net or you can get either
version now from the official Libre
Office website binaries are provided for
Deb and rpm based distros or you can
install the latest release from the
stable software repositories of your
Linux distribution
welcome back to the critical part of
your well today we'll only have two
headlines the first one will be having
and the second one will be decent
now the having occurs every two hundred
ten thousand blocks or roughly every
four years and reduces the block subsidy
so the money that the miners are getting
by around fifty percent currently that
is twelve and a half percent every ten
minutes and it will be reduced to six
point two five after around the 12th of
May as you can see behind me there is a
clock in the upper time is based on the
current block time so it takes around
eight point eight minutes not 10 minutes
to mine a block and the reason is that
everybody that has got an a6 minor
switched it machine on to take advantage
of the current still too often our
Bitcoin that the system emits every
around 10 minutes or currently every
eight and a half minutes so you have to
watch the upper time because that is the
one that counts there is no time within
the Bitcoin blockchain it's just block
and every look I said it takes around 10
minutes to be mined and so there's this
time difference coming from now how do
you say it correctly is it having or
happening I was asked well you can use
both in the in the blockchain itself in
the code it says having it's hardwired
in there hard-coded in there and if you
want to take a look into that also the
210,000 blocks is hard-coded in there
you go in to github.com then into the
blockchain github and there into the
said directory scr and there you search
for a file called validate dot cpp in
there just to control f to find to
search for having and you'll find it
there and you'll find also the formula
and there and the other one with the
210,000 blocks you'll find in in a file
called chain perms dot CPP
and the other question is okay what
happens after the let's hey that's to
12th of May 11th of May whenever that
having happens will the Bitcoin system
crash no it won't because it's not the
first time it's not the third time that
this happens and and the miners that
have got old machines are not operating
economically anymore we'll just switch
off their machines or we'll move to
another network the plenty of other
networks that accept all that that can
work with ASIC machines so only the best
machines will continue working on the
Bitcoin blockchain that has always been
like that just to remind you back in
2013 when somebody came up with the ASIC
for the first time all those GPS miners
GPU - sorry the GPO - were obsolete and
could be switched off because none of
them were really mining any bitcoins
anymore so life will continue and also
if let's say a substantial amount of
Bitcoin or switch of the machines then
as it's currently happening with the
time the time will be inverted so it
will take longer than 10 minutes to mine
a Bitcoin and to mine a block and and
after 2016 blocks the difficulty will be
just it anyway and it will be back to
the user of 10 minutes so there's
nothing to worry about this is a natural
effect that tabs on the blockchain on
the Bitcoin blockchain and it's not the
first time it's the third time that this
happening now but just just take a look
I mean it's an interesting it's an
interesting thing that's happening
because it will reduce the subsidy how
of the inflation rate from the Bitcoin
blockchain to around only one point
seven nine percent now the second one
will be effect will be really is a
really interesting one it's called t7
and it's translated into digital
currency electronic payment and that is
the rim in beer of China on a blockchain
so that happened now as we had
category-five announced it back in
December last year they have done it now
they're rolling it out and
would have I'm pretty sure global
implications so they're gradually
replacing the paper money with the
blockchain money and as you probably
know from China if you go to a small
market and you want to buy something
very cheap you don't buy it with cash
anymore you pay there with your cell
phone a little bit like Apple pay they
have got their systems and everybody has
got that over there then sometimes they
don't even accept credit cards anymore
and in future it will be only this
famous D SEP and you'll see two charts
in a second behind me when it's a
picture of that cell phone application
and the other one is just a comparison
to cash and and other valuables now
they're rolling it out very carefully
it's only in few cities where they're
rolling it out and testing it they will
be involving huge vendors like
McDonald's Starbucks that we'll be
testing in these cities the the D SEP at
the stage every merchant must accept the
D SEP because it's the official currency
of of China it is a blockchain based on
many things that we know from our
blockchain industry will be incorporated
in there with the only one with big
difference it's centralized and what
does that mean so if the government in
China or the Central Bank of China
decides to do something then everybody
will have to follow that and that means
that for example if they give you some
money or you have got some money in your
in your wallet and they can tell you
where to spend it you can't do anything
against that because it's not paper
anymore you cannot just go somewhere and
pay with cash you have to pay with Adi
SEP and they can tell you where to buy
it and the question I will be asked well
what happens with us here
it's the symbol it's going to be similar
just wait a few years I mean not to the
extreme that they will tell us what
we're what to do and not
with the money because that will be a
little revolution in the Western world
but if the government gives you $1,200
they can decide where to spend where you
they want you to spend it and that can
be regulated and done through as a
digital currency so watch out we'll keep
you informed on this here and that's it
from me here at the crypto corner I wish
you a fantastic week and that things may
turn out the way you want to to be
panned out so hope to see you next week
thank you for watching thanks Robert
just a reminder we're not giving you
financial advice here on the show rather
we're simply giving you the facts and
leaving it up to you and now back to
Becca Thank You Robby users of a widely
used firewall from Sophos have been
under a zero-day attack that was
designed to steal usernames
cryptographically protected passwords
and other sensitive data the well
researched and develop attack exploited
an SQL injection flow flaw in fully
patched versions of the Sophos XG
firewall with that toehold in systems
that downloaded and installed a series
of scripts that ultimately executed code
intended to make off with users real
names usernames the cryptographically
hashed form of the passwords and
assaulted sha-256 hash with the
administrator accounts password Sophos
has delivered a hotfix that might
against the vulnerability other data
targeted by the attack included in IP
address allocation permissions for
firewall users system information such
as running OS inversion uptime and
network configuration as well as the ARP
tables used to map IP addresses to
device MAC addresses so foes research
researchers wrote in Sunday's disclosure
this malware's primary task appeared to
be data theft which it could perform by
retrieving the contents of various
database tables stored in the firewall
as well as by running some operating
system command the exploits also
downloaded the malware from domains that
appeared in the loop to be legitimate to
evade detection some of the malware
deleted
lying files that executed it and ran
solely in memory the malicious code uses
a creative and roundabout method to
ensure it's executed it's executed each
time firewalls are started those
characteristics strongly suggests that
the threat actors spent weeks or months
laying the groundwork for the attacks
the date of the malware was designed to
exfiltrate suggest the attack was
designed to give attackers the means to
further penetrate the organizations that
use the firewall through phishing
attacks and unauthorized access to user
accounts the zero-day vulnerability that
made the attacks possible was a pre
authentication SQL injection flaw found
in the custom operating system that runs
the firewall so folks provided no
additional details about the
vulnerability users of vulnerable
firewalls should ensure the hotfix is
installed as soon as possible and then
examine their systems for signs of
compromised published on the Sophos news
site as the fix is part of the automatic
update ecosystem ensure your firewall
has these enabled to receive the fix a
new lightweight virtual reality device
has been created that would allow users
to touch objects add shops and museums
without ever having to go there in the
flesh the limits of virtual reality have
been stretched in the last five years
the technology has become the medium of
choice for game developers artists and
actors alike seeing a real boom in
projects that bring us alternate
realities during enforced social
isolation through immersive audio and
visual landscapes the ability to visit
mind-blowing locations real or not is on
the brink of becoming an affordable
option for many nowadays what you see
and hear in virtual reality is not so
dissimilar from actually visiting these
places however up until now the
experience did not give us the ability
to physically interact with surrounding
environments Chris Harrison assistant
professor at Carnegie Mellon's
University human-computer interaction
Institute says elements such as walls
furniture and virtual characters are key
to building immersive immersive virtual
worlds and yet contemporary VR systems
do little more than vibrate hand
controllers a team at the Pennsylvania
University
has created a new device that uses
haptic feedback a technology which
stimulates the sensation of touch to
make the virtual experience seem more
real where other devices might use a
series of expensive power-hungry motors
to give the sensation of touch their
design uses a simpler mechanical
solution from a shoulder-mounted system
a string is attached to each finger
giving resistance based on what the user
should be feeling a spring-loaded
mechanism is combined with an electric
latch but stops the hand from moving
further as it makes contact with heavy
objects in the virtual world
Kathy Fang co-author of the study says I
think the experience creates surprises
such as when you interact with a railing
and can wrap your fingers around it Fang
said the system would be suitable for VR
games and experiences that involve
interacting the physical obstacles and
objects such as a maze it might also be
used for visits to virtual museums and
at a time when physically visiting
retail stores is not always possible she
says you might also use it to shop in a
furniture store while there research
shows that this method provides a much
more realistic sense of touch the team
says that a mass-produced version when
when ready could be available to the
public for less than $50 google has
released the code for their internally
developed artificial intelligence tapas
it can take a natural language questions
such as what's the name of the latest
iPhone and fetch the answer from a
relational database or spreadsheet and
it's now open source the search giant's
researchers detailed the AI on Thursday
tapas is based on Bert a natural
language processing technique that
Google uses in its search engine a
sizable portion of the world's
information is relational that is to say
organized into rows and columns
navigating from these rows and columns
historically required either manually
shift lifting through a spreadsheet or
writing SQL queries natural language
processing makes the task considerably
easier for users which is why the
technology has been extensively adopted
by Google and other players in the
analytics market the search giant says
that the toughest beats or matches the
three
open-source algorithms for parsing
relational data they train the AI on 6.2
million tables from the English version
of Wikipedia and then set it to work on
a trio of academic datasets benchmark
tests that showed that the neural
network provides accurate comparable
answers as the rival algorithms across
all three data sets the type of language
processing Google has implemented into
tapas allows the AI to consider not only
the question posed by users in the data
they wish to query but also the
structure of the relational tables in
which the data is stored tapas can go
beyond just fetching data and also
perform basic calculations for example
if a business user evaluating sales data
asks for the average revenue across
their company's three most popular
products the AI would reply with the
calculated answer not just the data set
Taphouse is available now on the Google
research github repository big thanks to
Roy W and Nash in our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and if you
appreciate what we do become a patron at
patreon.com slash category 5 from the
category 5 TV newsroom i'm becca
ferguson we've got to take a quick break
when we come back i'm going to be
showing you a way that you can travel
the world vicariously through radio
stations don't go anywhere
welcome back I said I was gonna move
into the studio I'm glad I mean okay so
Becca broadcasted the news from the main
studio and that worked flawlessly with
the new devices the HDMI repeaters I
decided I'm gonna actually stick around
in here cuz it's so quiet now it just
sounds great and speaking of sound I
thought I would show you something that
just is mind-bending how technology can
evolve something that we thought could
never get any better
and that's radio well when I was growing
up I used shoutcast like crazy I still
do show cast calm it's a great service
click on the directory and you got radio
stations from all over the place however
here's the thing terrestrial radio
stations also these days broadcast on
the Internet
most of them if not all of them do and
if that's the case what would happen if
somebody were to aggregate all of the
radio stations they can find in the
entire world I'm talking thousands of
radio stations and put them together in
a way that has never been done before
that is radio garden check out radio dot
garden let's head there now what is
super unique about radio garden is that
when you start alright you ready let's
start it's going to find your geo
location on the planet Earth that's
where we are and it's going to take you
to your city and start playing a radio
station in your city now I've turned off
my speakers because I just don't want
the infringement copyright notice and
everything else however I don't need to
give you a tutorial on radio garden it's
so intuitive you're gonna figure it out
you're gonna find this is just amazing
hey there's the radio station Jeff and I
used to work at Life 100.3 in Barry so
this is an actual globe that you can
interact with so every Green Dot is in
fact a radio station
like an FM or AM radio station we're not
talking like while there are internet
radio radio stations I should shouldn't
say that
but so what you do is you zoom out and
in with your mouse wheel and then move
around the globe so if I wanted to here
in you know various areas of the States
or if I wanted to actually go overseas
right and let's say you know in let's go
a little south in the UK here let's head
over to hips which let's zoom in and
there's funkier radio I don't know if I
said it right
Woodbridge unique sessions radio so
these are radio stations broadcasting
hey I don't need to give you the
tutorial check it out is radio dot
garden every single green dot is another
radio station if they're clustered too
close together hey you've got a list
over here and you can click and it will
load and it's so incredibly fast you can
also create a favorites list you can
search check it out
I mean it's intuitive it's incredible
and and it loads the radio stations
faster than anything I've ever seen
before they've done a fantastic job now
this site this service is being
aggregated by a company in Amsterdam the
the Netherlands and there is some
information there about them but they
really like it's free for all and
there's nothing to it do check it out no
fuss no software to install just enjoy
radio from all around the world that's
radio dot garden it's all the time that
I have for this week folks but it's been
so great having you here thank you for
joining me on category-five technology
TV I'm looking forward to seeing you
again next week don't forget we are on
twitter at category-five TV I personally
am on Twitter if you'd like to follow me
at Robbie ferguson i'm incredibly witty
I like to think so
but I hope you'll follow me and I follow
back we are also on Facebook you can
just go to facebook.com do a quick
search for cat5 TV or just go
facebook.com slash user slash cat 5 TV
category 5 technology TV I mean we're on
all the platforms but Facebook we post
every week Twitter I'm very active on so
that's kind of where you want to go and
of course here on category 5 technology
TVs website category 5 TV that is the
place to be where we're constantly
posting brand-new shiny videos and we've
got some great features there you can
download videos as well we've got bit
torrent files that you can download past
seasons in bulk to your computer webs
right from our website so check it out
category 5 TV looking forward to seeing
you again next week everybody take care
see ya
