now we've been looking at the mikrotik
brand routers and the full series is
available absolutely free at cat5 dot TV
slash mikrotik now that our network is
up and running let's create a guest
Wi-Fi SSID our guest Wi-Fi will have a
throttled connection to the Internet and
they will not have access to our local
resources so that's network shares
printers things like that I want to lock
that down we're gonna create a truly
isolated Wi-Fi connection to allow
guests friends customers or visitors to
use our internet connection without
risking slowing down our connection or
without risking the integrity or privacy
of our data so this is going to be a
complex tutorial today so what I've done
is I've actually documented all of the
steps that I'm going to go through at
cat5 dot TV slash mikrotik so that you
can follow along it just makes it a lot
easier for you so let's get right into
it I am actually going to be going from
those notes because this is truly a
sophisticated series that we're getting
into right here today or at least a
aspect of the series so I am going to be
working on my pine book here and I want
to just bring up my laptop and the
screen looks fantastic this week look at
that I've made some improvements here at
the studio so I think you're gonna find
that things are a lot easier to read now
thank you for everyone for your patience
through this time because it has been
difficult for many broadcasters but
we've made some improvements this week
so thank you for your patience so the
first thing I want to do in web fig here
is I want to go into my wireless
security profiles so understand
I don't want those who are gonna be
accessing my guest Wi-Fi to use the same
password as I use on my main Wi-Fi
that's particularly what I don't want to
be giving out so let's do that right now
let's set up a separate password by
clicking on wireless at the left here
and then I'm going to click on security
profiles at the top now click on add new
and you'll see default is actually my my
you network so that's the password for
my network the Wi-Fi that I've already
set up and I'm gonna click add new and
we're just going to call this one guest
just like that
one note is I want to turn off WPA PSK
because WPA as you know is very part of
me it's very easy to compromise so we
don't want to use WPA we only want to
use wpa2 because wpa2 is much safer as
far as somebody being able to hack into
your Wi-Fi network so turn off WPA PSK
leave wpa2 PSK enabled and then down
here because that is enabled we need to
enter a pre-shared key aka the password
for our network so I'm gonna use dum-dum
one-two-three-four this guest Wi-Fi so
this is only for the guest Wi-Fi
remember that ok once I've entered my
password I'm going to hit ok so I
haven't actually created a network yet
all I've done is I've created a security
profile called guest and that security
profile contains the wpa2 shared key for
that guest Network and I notice that my
default network is in fact using WPA pre
shared key so while we're here let's
open that one and let's turn off WPA PSK
because I do not want someone hacking
into my main network and hit OK it only
took a moment's time for my pine Book
Pro to disconnect from the Wi-Fi and
reconnect the password hasn't changed
simply the encryption algorithm has
changed so now as you can see on the
screen neither of my Wi-Fi security keys
will allow WPA they only allow wpa2 it's
as simple as that now jump into our
Wi-Fi interfaces this is where you see
my two gigahertz and five gigahertz
networks and I want to add a new one for
my guest Wi-Fi but I don't have another
radio so what are we gonna do we're
going to share the radio with one of my
w lands so we're not going to add
another radio we don't have to buy an
access point or any kind of device
we're just going to use the same
mikrotik router so the only caveat of
that is that it means that the guest
Wi-Fi is going to be sharing the same
channel as our Wi-Fi like our actual
Wi-Fi for our network however because
it's a different network and it's a
different password they're not going to
be able to access our things it's just
going to be sharing the same the same
Channel
whether or not that matters I don't
think it does alright let's go add new
and we're gonna choose virtual because
we are not creating a real one now we're
creating a virtual network here on our
wireless tab in Wi-Fi interfaces so
let's create a virtual interface first
thing I need to do is always I mean give
things a name I'm going to call this one
guest
- Wi-Fi and you'll notice I'm using
guests throughout you might use your
last name or your family name or
something fun for your guests Wi-Fi you
can do that but for the sake of making
this tutorial universally accessible and
easy to follow I'm using guests because
anyone can go through these steps and
then retrace and rename things if you
want to but you don't have to do that so
on this network let's scroll down just a
little ways and we're going to see
something here called SSID we know that
the SSID for our network is basically
what you see when you bring up your
phone and you access the Wi-Fi and you
see a list of the different networks so
right now I see cat 5 TV and cat 5 TV -
5g and about a billion other Wi-Fi
networks around me but I want to give
this one an SSID that designates this
the guest Wi-Fi now in our case today
I'm going to call this SSID simply
guessed again I'm going to refer back to
my comment that we're just making this
universally accessible but you can call
that whatever you want this could be I
could call this cat 5 TV - guest which
would be very appropriate because if
there's some other network called guest
because that's pretty generic that could
cause a conflict but also
it just makes it so that when people
come into the studio they can say oh
that's the guest Wi-Fi for cat5 TV hey
what's the password dum-dum one two
three nice and simple right but for
today's demonstration we are just gonna
go with guest and now the final thing
that we need to do of course is set our
security profile for the Wi-Fi
connection and we're going to change
that from default to guest so that's
gonna set so that we're using the
password dum-dum 1 2 3 as we specified
with that security profile and that's
literally all there is to adding the
interface hit ok now because I am making
changes to my Wi-Fi setup and because my
pine Book Pro is connected to my Wi-Fi
right now remember that Wi-Fi now the
router is not rebooting my servers and
everything my Internet's not going down
however the Wi-Fi is going to hiccup
there because the Wi-Fi transmitter is
restarting or reloading those
configuration settings on its own so now
that that's finished reloading those
settings you'll see now that under
wireless Wi-Fi interfaces I have one
called guest Wi-Fi and that is a virtual
interface connecting to my Wi-Fi so the
next thing we need to do is we need to
start routing how the traffic is going
to flow and do you get the sense here
that hey if you if you follow these
steps and if you understand the steps
involved in setting up a mikrotik router
you can do some really sophisticated
stuff at the top of this demonstration I
did warn that this is going to be kind
of complicated not that it's hard it's
not difficult it's not challenging it's
just there are a lot of steps so go to
cap v dot TV slash micro tech and I've
listed those out in a documentation
format for you and the entire series is
available for you absolutely free so if
you want to follow these steps and
you're a little worried about maybe
fumbling over something that I've said
or maybe I'm moving a little bit too
quickly hey head over to cap v dot TV
slash mikrotik to get yourself set up
with those Doc's all right so to create
a bridge I'm gonna go over to the
left-hand menu and click on bridge we
can see there's an active bridge already
running there but we want to add
one for our guest Wi-Fi because we want
this to be separate from our main bridge
so I've clicked add new and I'm gonna
give this one a name you guessed it
bridge - guest
let's keep everything simple I want you
to follow this verbatim and that's gonna
help to make sure that everything makes
sense in the end and you can always go
back and and rename things if you feel
that you need to that's literally all we
need to do in order to create a bridge
hit okay so now as you can see we now
have a bridge called bridge guests
sitting there doing absolutely nothing
so we need to actually specify how the
ports are going to be assigned so click
on ports and we need to actually connect
that bridge to our new guest Wi-Fi so
add new and then change the interface to
guest Wi-Fi and the bridge we don't want
that using our main bridge we want that
to go to bridge - guest and now hit OK
and now you can see right at the bottom
there guest - Wi-Fi bridge - guest all
set ready to go and waiting for us to
finish configuring so the next thing
that we need to do obviously we haven't
told this guest Wi-Fi the bridge what IP
block to use and again I'm gonna back up
to when I said I want this network to be
separate from my private network I do
not want the guest Wi-Fi on the same IP
block I do not want their IP block to be
able to access mine because I have
Network shares on my server and I don't
want them to have access to deleting my
files or worse yet here we live in a
world where someone could connect to
your guest Wi-Fi from their Windows
laptop and they have ransomware that
ransomware then goes out on the network
and looks for network shares and
encrypts all your files so even though
you may have anti-virus or you may even
have nothing but Linux on your network
because they've connected to your Wi-Fi
they now have access to encrypting all
your files with their malware that they
have on their laptop so we're creating a
network that protects you
entirely against that kind of
infiltration as well as the malicious
person who would connect to your guests
Wi-Fi and try to seek out private
information on your network so we're
gonna protect you against that let's set
up an IP block for this guest Wi-Fi and
a go IP and then addresses on the
left-hand side here and you can see here
that my network is 10.0.0.0 dot zero dot
one two three four so on and Counting so
I'm gonna create a new IP block by
simply clicking add new and we're gonna
make this one a little different so
we're gonna go with 10.10 dot dot one
slash 24 and on the interface guess
which interface we're gonna use here
folks bridge - guest that's the comment
field that I was talking about last week
that we didn't really see we don't need
that in this case but you can add
comments to anything that you add in web
thick hit ok so now we have a new
network here called ten ten ten dot one
and it will assign I well we will
inevitably when we setup a DHCP server
see there's lots of steps it will assign
IP addresses on that IP block
so speaking of DHCP server that's our
next step so we're gonna jump over here
and under IP which is already open
already expanded and we're gonna click
on DHCP server and here you can see my
current running DHCP server but the
thing with this is that it's got kind of
a weird name out of the box so I first
thing I want to do is I want to open
that and I'm just gonna rename this one
local and the reason I want to do that
is I want to always remind myself that
that DHCP pool is my local network it
has full access to everything on my
network you do not want to assign a
guest to that so by calling it local it
just keeps me a little bit more safe
because it stands out as that is
definitely my local network now let's
add a new DHCP server and you can see
that there's all this setup that you can
go through but I want to show you a tool
that's going to help make this even
easier so I just brought that up but
cancel and you can see there's actually
DHCP setup and that's going to bring up
a wizard that is going to make this a
lot simpler for us and this is literally
easy breezy we're gonna change the DHCP
server interface to bridge - guest and
then watch this we're gonna hit next
next see it r2 automatically assigned it
to the correct network next next DNS
servers is just pulling from my router
that's fine we can change we're gonna
actually change those in a future
episode when we set up a piehole that's
not a bad word that's actually a device
that's gonna act as our DNS server
in-house and block advertising block
pornography all that kind of stuff click
Next Next Next Next Next Next just leave
everything as is and we're done whoo
we've got guest 1 and notice ok well why
is it DHCP 1
well my bridge guest I can see that it's
bridge guest but notice it I didn't hand
her a name for it and so now I I can do
the exact same thing I can open that up
and call this guest
easy peasy right ok so now I'm at the
point where I should be able to see the
guest Wi-Fi network on my phone so let's
do a quick refresh of Wi-Fi here and
sure enough there's cat 5 TV 5 gigahertz
cat 5 TV and one called guest so let's
click it actually before I do that I'm
gonna bring up a local network resource
unconnected to cat 5 TV I want you to
see that I am in fact able to access
local resources so let's just bring up
my VirtualBox login there it is so once
I switch over to the guest Wi-Fi I'm
gonna use that as a demonstration to
show whether or not we're able to access
those resources so back in my Wi-Fi
let's connect to guest enter my password
from the security profile dum-dum 1 2 3
connect obtaining IP address and we're
in what options do we have here let's
look at the IP address 10 see the
Gateway 10 10 10
one all right so let's let's look at our
browser again now that I'm connected to
that Network and let's try to access PHP
VirtualBox and you'll notice yes I am
indeed still able to access PHP
VirtualBox I've clicked on the address
bar and I've clicked on the link and it
is loading and that is simply because I
have yet to create a firewall rule to
basically and it trap that Wi-Fi the
guest access and make it so that it's
not allowed to communicate back with my
local area network or my Wi-Fi devices
on my actual Wi-Fi so the way that we're
gonna do that is back on our mikrotik
web the Figg I'm going to click I've
opened IP and then we're gonna go to
firewall we've already seen this on
previous episodes of cat5 TV slash
mikrotik you can see I've added a couple
of new things since the last time we
were here but what I want to do this
time is I want to create a rule to be
able to make it so that the Wi-Fi for
the guest network is not able to get
access to ten dot 0 dot 0 dot
on add new to create a new firewall rule
and you're gonna laugh at how easy this
is you'll notice the chain is defaulting
to forward that is what we want so leave
that as is and we're gonna set the
source address so this is if the IP
address is coming from this then do this
so watch what I'm gonna do here 10.10
dot dot 0 slash 24 so anyone who is on
the guest Wi-Fi IP block is going to
fall into this the source address
destination address this is my network
10.0.0.0 slash 24 if anyone from this
network attempts to access this network
what do you want to do
scroll down action
drop so what we're saying is any source
from the guest Wi-Fi IP block trying to
access my actual LAN we are going to
drop those packets I want to point out
that this is unidirectional so there may
be cases where you want devices to
access your your wireless network but
not have access to your internal
resources however you do want your
internal resources to be able to access
them think about perhaps an IP camera
that uses Wi-Fi to connect well you want
it to be able to connect to the internet
you want it to be able to access the
network and you from your computer on
your land want to be able to access that
camera but you don't want that camera to
have the rights to access your things on
your network it's just an example but I
mean you can probably think of devices
that you'd want to have kind of separate
from your network so that if somebody
grabs it if somebody steals that let's
say you've got a Raspberry Pi sitting in
the roof somewhere connected to your
Wi-Fi well if someone steals that you
don't want them having access to your
network so putting it on a separate
network but allowing you to be able to
connect to it so we understand that
we're doing this unidirectional e this
is only going to affect the guest Wi-Fi
this is not reducing it's not
eliminating my ability to connect to the
devices on the guest Wi-Fi let's hit OK
and now we have that route set up
however you've noticed it has placed it
at the bottom and we've already talked
about this we want to make sure that our
forward rules happen before some of the
mikrotik stuff and I certainly want to
make sure that this happens before the
rules that I've created if they involve
internal infrastructure I want this one
to happen after this no I don't I want
it to happen before this because if
they're going to access
ten dot 0 dot 0 dot through the internet
through the port that we've allowed so
if this was below it they would actually
have access to 10.0.0.0 category 5 TV so
I'm gonna drop as the first thing so now
without having to restart without having
to do anything else I'm gonna bring back
up my phone here which is connected to
the guest Wi-Fi and let's jump back to
my browser and let's click on PHP
VirtualBox which you see that progress
indicator up at the top it's hung up now
I mean I know that I can still see PHP
VirtualBox because I've previously
loaded it let's go home and let's go
there again
so 10.0 PHP VirtualBox watch this I've
clicked on it where is it
it's not working because I am connected
to the guest Wi-Fi this site can't be
reached however is the internet working
let's just go category 5 TV yeah the
internet works a treat let's try to go
back to wrong IP
10.00 10 which is my VirtualBox server
and let's because we know that's going
to timeout I'm going to change to my cat
5 TV 5 gigahertz Wi-Fi there we go
connected and bring it up and boom I'm
instantly in so as you can see we have
successfully created a guest Wi-Fi that
is separate from our network they cannot
access resources on 10.0.0.0 they can't
gain access to that from our guest Wi-Fi
we're also going to learn in coming
weeks how we can throttle that I
mentioned that that we're going to be
looking at throttling but we're out of
time for this week segment so I will
move that into a future episode as well
so make sure you watch for that we're
gonna learn how to throttle the
connection for our guest Wi-Fi to make
sure that even you know if I give the
kids access to it on their tablets are
their friends and then the friends are
down the road downloading videos through
my Wi-Fi I don't want them milking all
my bandwidth so we're gonna cover that
on a coming show as well cap five dot TV
slash mikrotik is where you want to go
to get the entire series absolutely free
please post your comments and make sure
you subscribe to us at Linux tech show
calm which is where I'm posting all
these as well which reroutes to our
youtube channel called the next tech
show
