I've got my fresh cup of joe welcome to
coffee break it's the 22nd of April 2020
which is a Wednesday and it is the
Wednesday hold day Wednesday oh boy
but the Wednesday tonight I know look
forward to it me oh boy I am looking
forward to tonight and for those who are
wondering what the heck I am on about
category five technology TV returns
thank you
a round of applause three of you Peter
you can clap for me come on man can't
make it out
is it a nesting doll shadows haggis oh
boy oh oh you can help that no you're
donating that oh you know eating that
I'm coffee break you can have that yeah
I want my lunch to stay down thank you
very much black pudding
what have you thought
now I'm not going to be able to do the
show without picturing Peter sitting
there with a blood pudding oh my god
when I say pop the popcorn before the
show I mean popular have anything good
to eat
I Got News for you rummy Oh
I got my shipping email yeah Oh No
yep what for the pond time yep guys it's
time to clap for VP now I'm in trouble
because now I have to produce something
now actually as you know rots and cogs
and actually make it work so it suddenly
arrived it arrived and suddenly bp9 is
nowhere to be found on top because he's
so ashamed he can't compile it after all
this talk and I'm afraid something like
that exactly will happen but yeah
there's a couple of there's at least a
couple of examples that I know to work
that I can try first over there yes
proof at least I can write code to it
send it to the part-time and go but I
have not received shipping notification
about the pine time however today I did
receive a delivery notification from a
Mara droid was it Elizabeth
although the British Columbia again what
we did it went it went a while I came up
from California into Vancouver and then
actually Ross like you would think up on
the left-hand side of the country right
on the left hand side yes that's like
the left side and the right side the
left coast of the right coast right so
it makes sense that they would send it
up the west coast right realistically if
you look at a map as as the crow flies
it would make a lot more sense to just
ship it directly you sure you know up
through New York and into that that's
not how transit works have you been on a
commercial airplane I'll say last year
because not obviously but from Los
Angeles to my home base via Chicago and
via you know that later kind of made
sense but but but
I've seen you all over the country yeah
and it doesn't make any sense at all but
tell me how it does to them you know
that last package the the power
distribution you know that's why I asked
it shipped from Mississauga it went
south so imagine here's Mississauga
here's Barry yay Noor just north of
Mississauga right it went south almost
to the border at the New York border and
then it came back again to Barry sorting
her boys enum was in wherever that yeah
apparently was what was that Toronto it
could have been no but it went way south
of Toronto didn't make any sense it was
like over it went like way down and kind
of West sure I'm sure that make any
sense from Chicago to California back to
Massachusetts you know what it is so I'm
thinking no gas is cheap now so don't
let 53 gallons what is up with that in
China in the flights or or back back up
and running and in order to boost people
flying they're selling airplane tickets
at it's about 70 cents per ticket Wow
Wow they really want people to start
their moving again well they are not
taking any and outside flights yet so
but even the new started China is say
opening flights is a good sign so is it
though is it well hopefully they haven't
done it too soon that's that's my
concern
yeah my big concern
are you going remember the shortest path
from America Kosovo they might be gonna
cut the vulture of failure and they
don't go to the Arctic to get to
Australia I would shouldered long as
they don't get here I they all go my
dear Molly show that together some good
way yeah but and what expense though at
what expense area budgeted blue belt
down the road down to go to daily Oh
Bilbo don't back you guys I feel pretty
safe and confident going to work each
day because I literally leave my house
drive to the office and I'm there and I
I don't see any direction but yeah you
can't do that on an airplane right
especially when they're selling tickets
for 70 cents I'm not sure if it was
China but there are some in this country
the sweet seats in the middle the middle
see it is not is not allowed to be used
what is the middle seat six feet wide if
you're gonna take up six feet wide you
gotta buy to see I don't want to make
light of it I don't want to make light
of it but realistically I understand
that a lot of people are like struggling
with the self-isolation and and you know
it can be nasty yeah I'm very lucky that
that I have a family that I go home to
I've got a nice house that I can enjoy
and I'm safe where I am but there's not
it not everyone's in that boat so I
understand people wanting to like let's
let's get things going let's get back to
work let's get the stores reopened but
we're not doing this for fun well
no like this is not is the government's
didn't shut down stores and restaurants
just because they felt like it yeah so
we got to be realistic I mean it's a big
inconvenience for a like for everybody
and it's really kind of devastating for
some but we've got to stay we've got to
stay safe and we got to keep like my
parents safe and you know grandparents
and other people that are more
susceptible to this things moving a
little to tech there is one thing that
is I have an old laptop that it's been
sitting here for the last few weeks
Linux honor I don't think that this is a
very old computer it's a single core AMD
Athlon something the thing that I liked
the best about this laptop is the
battery even though it's not holding
charge but I can HP I bought a six-hour
battery for it so that it would it
sticks out like that
I missed that manufacturers could start
at least it having a line of the laptops
big banners that you can actually hold
there oh yeah well they usually they
come with like a four cell and then you
can upgrade to a 6 or a 9 cell or
whatever they offer 8 cell and then when
you get into the larger batteries that's
when they jut out the side like that my
mind came with the battery like what you
like what you're showing so boots but
the last time I powered I that with the
battery in it it the battery heated up
quite quite significantly
maybe you should build a wooden box for
that very quickly I very quickly shut it
down
pulled the battery yeah it was seriously
hot to the touch
yeah so I run it now without the battery
you know just plugged up I wasn't sure
if that was gonna work because some
laptops will not fire up if you don't
have a battery in them but this one did
so I can I can run it just right off the
power supply but of course you don't get
that protection link was replacing he
was opening it was a dead battery and he
was showing how you could refurbish the
case I'm sure they're small shells
inside and they're all really just
big-ass bigger smaller AAA batteries you
know and the triple-a batteries that you
can see realized
so try about the problem where I hoped I
wouldn't legend that we can move because
you have to play your end of no no no no
kidding but my laptop says I got change
which I which detect the charge in the
same and Reuters attention a couch over
artists cupboard if you take the battery
to page careful like very annoying fact
if I eat all but if you take a plate you
can use the batteries without the jail
enjoy batteries later there's no more
batteries and I work well well I
consider I consider that battery to be
completely filed I'm not going to try
and use it again batteries and some tin
foil just jam some tin foil in there and
stick it in with bubblegum yeah don't
forget the wooden box really having some
serious
however in the batteries I read there
four or five months ago there was a new
laptop coming out it had it had 23 hours
battery life you know it bothers me when
you can't take the battery out of the
laptop but you know why that can that
can be a big problem some of the HP's
with the integrated battery when the
when they lock up normally you'd remove
the battery flush the battery back in so
you're stuck you got to actually take it
apart so explain to me this one Robbie
act book sizing from my work PC my work
laptop is an HP when I shut it down at
the end of the night I shut it down
every night when I shut it down at the
end of the night it has a hundred
percent battery capacity when I started
up again the next morning it's down to
like 95 no no does she ever leave again
they did charge within the battery HL
the chemical actually enjoyed that means
I live a little way to go if you did god
did you did them due to chemical that's
been in the battery overnight Peter yes
by percent overnight I mean how could I
lose that much percentage that much
charge theoretically the thing is turned
off I don't believe you I don't know are
you unplugging it yes are you unplugging
you know so you can grab your battery
that dem√≥cratas again Gretchen in other
words I will keep a vanity a Benito but
I've never seen a battery do that Peter
I've never seen a rechargeable battery
do that not that much at least not 5%
right but maybe maybe it's just not that
accurate right like if you got your volt
meter on that battery I wonder what
you'd actually fine I can't get to the
battery it's in the case I can't open it
up gosh
it's as well I'm not even gonna go this
I'm not buying an HP laptop if I ever
buy new when I look at buying a laptop
for a few specific things one is I need
to be able to remove the battery so I
can click on you wrong and it has to
have the insert key and then the system
key on Windows there's useless as don't
think they it's ever been used for
anything but in Linux and UNIX system
that is there with the system workshop
very often that is the only thing that
it's saving the file system indicator
eternity would be to the power and the
key on the keyboard have to be in in the
normal place yeah see those of you who
have watched my original pine one review
you know that I need the keys to be in
the right place you know I think they
did a huge blunder some 5 or 10 years
ago where the lower case they set X CV
and so on and they had they added a new
key on that row the way they sold it was
then the shifted all key is trying to
create a 27th letter new function and
they added it in it was already occupied
so they shifted BLTs a 1 here 2 to 2
right
and I remember reading and one of the
commenter's had one of those a laptop
and he wrote a comment just to
demonstrate how how stupid they did the
key keyboard was here and so he wrote
without looking and the sentence
that's terrible nice looks like anything
so I've you know I've seen some
companies that are bringing out like
Ultra portables and everything and
they've jammed the keyboards together
and and all I see is the keyboard and
I'm just like nope not a chance you know
if those keys aren't in the right spot
no I don't want the slash to be over
there no so bill you mentioned the
system request key before and I remember
the system well I remember the system
request key from 30 years 20 30 years
ago when I worked on mainframes back
then and they still apply now except I
don't have a keyboard my detachable
kitten you know my regular USB keyboard
the the keyboard on the laptop none of
them have the system request key but
you're right I do remember having it
seeing it but I never knew what it was
system requests I've never used system
requests to recover from an X Window
session though so that's I always use
ctrl alt f1 ctrl alt f2 that's right but
if I'm if I'm on tty 7 with a GUI and it
locks up I just go to TTY 2 and I kill
the process depending what if that
doesn't work yeah what if you County
rates which sessions yeah and then you
need a new computer what could lead to
an instance where Linux is completely
locked up that's that's the question hmm
I don't think I've ever seen that hmm
unless you've got bad Hardware crew the
big system that I have there is from
2012 and the first month the first month
it was crashing every other day and then
another store where I bought it they
couldn't help me because I didn't eat it
because I didn't have
he notes on it in the end on there so
they couldn't help me because and they
were they say that they're wanting they
could do was to run a diagnostics
program but because I did have the
installed something else today movement
attorney it yeah gonna get from any sort
of big box lucy v8 from the script I
know best we can do is reinstall windows
bad like if you've lost all your data in
my case the solution turned out to be a
to yank out VJ card the indie do
something and now you and I and I
started using the internal Intel and it
says in stable stable a few years ago oh
that was nice yeah and then suddenly is
radar a way yes I built a machine from
scratch from from parts but that I
thought much like the gaming rig that
you built for such as husband oh yeah
and it wasn't as high spec as that build
though and saying same was true for your
broadcaster II but eventually it failed
it would just reboot for no reason at
all and I still to this day can't figure
out what it is that went wrong with it
so I ended up just buying a adele and
just yeah a friend of mine he had some
was almost a year old and I was visiting
them and I was showing them and you a
Bible
I was showing him that and almost ended
the computer just shut down on me I did
not know what and that next time ten
minutes later sure enough it and then we
notice that his kidnapper sitting on his
lap had his finger down on the yeah
usually if I've seen a computer that
will reboot itself or turn itself off
it's gonna be either the CPU paste has
gone bad or the CPU cooling in some way
that's what I think has happened my
rosemary hi beau yeah so if it's
overheating it's gonna turn itself off
in order to prevent the amateurs at the
CP yep so I've got some fresh I've got
some fresh thermal paste now and I'm
gonna try reattaching that the cooler I
did notice when I took the cooler off
the CPU the thermal paste had all dried
up it was all there yeah so I I agree
with you I think that's what the problem
was but I don't know if that will
finally solve it so here's hoping
here's hopefully you know what else is
you never think of it necessarily and
certainly consumers don't necessarily
think of it but with that problem it
could be just as simple as dust buildup
on the ceiling fan I know enough for
that and it doesn't sit on the floor so
it's a more modest so it doesn't get
that much stuff you'd be amazed though
how many computers come in for service
and it's all shutting down its been
shutting down and it's like there's a
thick shake of cat hair oh really
yeah oh it's coming in pretty late today
like we're just it's the end of the
coffee break my man
in in my final statement of the day
did you guys hear Amazon is making Lord
of the Rings TV series yes I did hear
about it it's most expensive series ever
ever produced I think yeah
like just to buy the rights for it is
like the cost of a normal TV series and
then they still have to pay the actors
and do the production itself but the
story talking much got told in the movie
so they're groups so they're creating a
prequel so it's not it's not written by
JRR tolkien it's a prequel that is based
in the in the world in Mordor and and
like through that well the prequel was
the pathology that was also a yes free
no I'm talking that's the pretty cool
yeah well that's like the prequel like
by a couple of months but this is like
2,000 years in the in advance of those
of that story so we'll see okay we'll
see yeah maybe but I really didn't like
you know from baby
I've just had a brain fart I'm sorry
see oh that's they they went back and
made a pre canary fantastic thank you
yeah but they went back and make it made
a prequel called fantastic beasts or
something like that no we knew it is the
original they should have just oh really
so and funny funny thing is as I watched
the first Harry Potter and just no
interest at all okay yeah a fair enough
like yeah boring boring
and watch the fantastic East and I kind
of got a kick out of the fantastic
that's really okay it is just more
interesting I don't know maybe I'll
watch it again and see if it looks
better the second time around who knows
right although maybe maybe because I had
gone into the fantastic piece thinking
of it as its own standalone thing no I'm
not trying to make a connection to Harry
Potter mm no we'll see as Moe says it's
going to be them the most
offensive television show ever produced
so I just think like okay well they're
doing shows well Amazon is already doing
really really good as far as production
values go I think they're gonna have a
pretty big yellow rebirth the franchise
for sure
I'm surprised Disney didn't snap it up
there snapped up everything else why not
I think it was like 250 million dollars
just to buy the rights for it though
that's that's something like that small
change for maybe maybe the maybe the
owners didn't want to sell it to Disney
I don't know all I know is it's coming
we don't know when because of the
pandemic because they were a bad nerd
shooting I guess but that's not
happening right now so we'll see she
gives a wonderful thing don't do it all
in CG we just need a 3d scan of all the
actors movie he lives alone I mean small
flat and he made a movie of him coming
home from work and conversation total of
five other people all played by himself
oh yes five or six gonna say who was he
conversing with all three of us me
myself and I that gives me so many ideas
for a self-isolation special if only I
could get the green screen installed
right yeah yeah you'll be fine just like
the green curtain on the on the benzene
somewhere you'll be fine yeah yeah well
have a wonderful new balls
oh it's like a 40 pound great alright
Nyles guys today is the start of
category 5 technology TVs new era be
there tonight at 7 o'clock I will be
there and I'll be pushing all the
buttons and making it go so I will see
you and I take care everybody see ya
