covering the week stop textin slight
linux bias - programmer musicians wrote
every possible melody in existence to a
hard drive in MIDI format copyrighted
the whole thing and then released it all
to the public domain in an attempt to
stop musicians from getting sued
programmer musician and copyright
attorney Damian reel along with musician
programmer Noah Rubin sought to stop
copyright lawsuits that they believe
stifle the creative freedom of artists
often in copyright cases for song
melodies if the artist being sued for
infringement could have possibly had
access to the music they're accused of
copying even if it was something they
listened to just once they can be
accused of subconsciously
infringing on the original content one
of the most notorious examples of this
is Tom Petty's claim that Sam Smith's
stay with me sounded too close to
Petty's I won't back down Smith
eventually had to give Petty co-writing
credits on his own a chart-topping songs
which entitled petty to royalties
defending a case like that in court can
cost millions of dollars in legal fees
and the outcome is never assured real
and Rubin hoped that by releasing the
melodies publicly they'll prevent a lot
of these cases from standing a chance in
court in a recent talk about the project
reel explained that to get their melody
database they algorithmically determined
every melody contained within a single
octave to determine the finite nature of
melodies reel and Reuben developed an
algorithm that recorded every possible
eighth note 12 beat melody combo this
used the same basic tactic that hackers
used to guess passwords churning through
every possible combination of notes
until none remained real says this
algorithm works at a rate of 300,000
melodies per second oh I know once a
work is committed to a tangible format
it's can
copyrighted and in MIDI format notes are
just numbers all of the melodies they've
generated as well as the codes for the
algorithm that generated them are
available as open source materials on
github and the datasets are on the
Internet Archive fantastic thank you
guys that is so cool my goodness this is
like this should go into the files of
why didn't we think of this before these
guys should get a super award like they
should actually get a small royalty from
all of the royalties that these other
big bully
musicians yeah so now I want to download
the entire MIDI set like a tribute
edirol orchestral to all the MIDI notes
and re sequence everything add some drum
loops and let's see what we come up with
I think this is great I think it's it's
obviously novel but it's also a
brilliant way to thwart like this is the
equivalent copyright trolls are the
equivalent of patent trolls in many many
ways so oh yeah that sounds I mean
there's only so many chords we can use
in in our you know 4/4 and 3/4 time yeah
and and they do start like I mean
barenaked ladies you know GD c GD c GD c
a minor like how many songs are gonna
fall into that and and you can
creatively have a thought that is
similar to somebody else's very creative
unique thought sure but you didn't hear
it even like it you can people have said
things that i've said i'm sure without
hearing me say them they're not stealing
my thoughts i just feel like in this
particular case especially the example
Tom Petty was being very petty
I think that since the only person who
is able to create unique melodies is SIA
these days it just comes down to it like
seriously there's only so many melodies
that can be made and we're coming up on
a time where in recorded history there
have been so many recordings made that
we're gonna start to see overlap and we
have seen that this is a cool way for
them to say haha we we own them all
we've released them to the public domain
well done thank you so much
links below yes go download the MIDI
files sequence them use them you create
your tracks
be creative
[Music]
