covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias last week we learned that
Facebook trained their own chat BOTS AI
using posts from reddit but a team of
musicologists have done something
similar setting their songwriting bot
loose on the social platform a team of
Dutch academics who after an experiment
in song writing using artificial
intelligence algorithms and it virt n't
lis created a new musical genre
Eurovision techno fear the team used AI
techniques to generate a hit predictor
based on the melodies and rhythms of
more than 200 classics from the
Eurovision Song Contest an annual
celebration of pop music and kitsch
these included Abbas Waterloo and
laureen's euphoria 2012 also Sweden but
to generate the lyrics for the song of
us which the team members hoped to enter
in the inaugural AI Song Contest this
year they also used a separate AI system
one based on the social media platform
reddit it was this that resulted in a
rallying cry for a revolution with a
song that crescendos as a robotic voice
urges listeners to kill the government
kill the system like the notorious
a chat bot developed by Microsoft in
2016 that started spewing racist and
sexist sentiments after being trained on
Twitter
the fault lay with the human sources of
data not the algorithms Jane's speed
control Eirik generator stresses we do
not condone these lyrics
she says the team nevertheless decided
to keep the anarchist sentiment to show
the perils of applying AI even to the
relatively risk-free environment of
Europop the use of AI and music
composition is now on the cusp of the
mainstream as more musicians and
songwriters look for tools that inspire
different types of music the AI song
contest organized by Dutch broadcaster V
Pro is one of the first events to take
the process of using algorithms to
compose original music out of academia
and avant-garde experimentation and into
the commercial world
[Music]
