here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom the US Interior
Department is grabbing its entire drone
fleet for fear it could be used against
them
Google is buying Fitbit and promises
that they will not exploit all that
health data to serve ad Microsoft edge
is coming to Linux the late James Dean
is getting digitally restored for an
upcoming movie and many on the Internet
including Chris Evans aren't happy stick
around the full details are coming up
later in the show this is the category
five dot TV newsroom covering the week's
top tech stories
like linux bias Rickman joined this week
by Robbie Ferguson some quick honorable
mentions this week Sasha SpaceX Falcon 9
rocket deployed 60 Starling satellites
into Earth's orbit this week that was
just Monday did you I don't know if you
at home caught the video I was watching
live and it was astonishing bad to think
that an independent company has sent a
shuttle basically up into the Earth's
orbit and released 60 satellites so what
does that mean well 60 satellites okay
well why do we need more satellites what
they're doing is creating the star link
technology so now I believe my theory is
that Elon Musk who plans to go to Mars
is going to be up linking our internet
service here on earth with Mars I think
that's a very distinct possibility
otherwise why is he so keen on getting
satellites into the Earth's orbit that
are the internet however our immediate
acknowledgement of what he's doing is
what we still rely so much on cable yeah
and I mean wires I mean like the big
honkin wire that's under the ocean that
brings the internet across the ocean
like we're still so heavily reliant on
that so what would happen in a world
where we were no longer reliant on that
if a natural disaster happened let's say
a hurricane right that would typically
take out infrastructure so we lose our
phone we lose our internet we're no
longer able to communicate with a wiff
family we're no longer able to let
people know that we're safe nor are we
able to find out what's happening next
yeah is there a change in the weather is
there a turn in this we should sure yeah
so I'm using a natural disaster as a
simple but effective example so now
imagine if that internet provision which
internet provides voice over IP phone
service it provides our news our weather
forecasting and our communication
with internet these days we have
everything that we need as far as
communication goes I would agree yeah so
imagine if it was not susceptible to
land-based natural disaster or war or
famine or third-world like the the
inability to create infrastructure
within the third world because of simple
financial reasons right so you think
about those kinds of things and you
think okay well let's put a whole bunch
of satellites up into orbit and now
we're now no longer susceptible to those
things so now when natural disaster
strikes everyone still has communication
within that zone when the third world
countries need access to high-speed
Internet for education they have that so
that's the immediate thing that's
happening here with StarLink and that is
now underway and there are other things
like I mentioned independent like this
is not NASA on Mars
yes but immediately this is not NASA
this is not government funded this is
not a government of the world that has
come and said okay we're gonna send
something up into space no this is an
independent company and whatever you
believe about Elon Musk I think he's a
genius he's a brilliant man and he's
doing something that has never been done
before and we're about to see some shift
in the technology we're about to see the
shift in how things work around here and
and certainly I think he's planning for
the future and when I say Mars I'm
thinking we know that that's his
long-term endgame yeah Elon Musk and if
that's his long-term endgame well why is
he putting satellites into the Earth's
orbit that have internet access and is
that going to allow communication with
Mars which is mind-bending to me that's
sci-fi and yet this is actually
happening right now also in our
honorable mentions Google is attempting
to combat the growing placed or malware
issue and they've actually formed an app
defense alliance which brings technology
from ESET lookout and simpie reom to the
Play Store so you might have actually
noticed that now when you install an app
on Android
it gets scammed first yeah so andr
Android or Google has said okay well
that's not our specialty the malware
thing East that's already doing a
fantastic job of this so let's work with
ESET let's allow ESET to create
something for our App Store and we're
working with these other companies
through this Alliance as well and so
it's going to reduce the amount of
malware because it's scanning everything
that goes into our phones through the
App Store and I think it's a good thing
it's a great that is a good thing it's
it's preventive measure right it really
is but it's also these are third-party
so these are not Google mm-hmm they're
aligned with Google which is good for
them but there are those who are afraid
of I don't I shouldn't use the word
afraid are a little bit on edge about
monopolization right there are the big
three and Google is one of them and and
you know if there's so much power so if
Google has all control yeah you can't
say buy this from Google and Google says
that it's safe yeah so now we've got
third parties that are involved yeah and
third parties that are saying yes this
is safe it feels better yeah even if
those third parties like others
definitely a good stop it's definitely a
good step but it's also a little bit
funny because you know the malware
problem is like so they're they're
taking a different approach to Microsoft
Microsoft has said oh well we'll just
and we'll just create a antivirus within
our operating system that's garbage by
the way but we'll put it in there and
Google is saying no that's not our
specialty we're gonna let the pros do
this and we're gonna let them take care
of the malware issue it's an interesting
interesting case and finally in our
honorable mentions this week NASA
scientists opened an untouched Rock and
oil sample from the moon
that was returned to Earth on Apollo 17
that marks the first time in more than
40 years that a pristine sample from the
Apollo era has been opened and what's
really really cool about this sacha yeah
is that
we've seen pictures of the x-ray data
from 40 years ago of those samples Fran
is like blurry and and now they've shown
x-ray photos that are AI enhanced and
machine learning enhanced through
current 2019 technology and it's
absolutely mind-blowing how the
technology has shifted our ability to
look at these samples and just goes to
show like hey that was a good move on
NASA's part to be able to you know set
those samples aside and wait for the
technology we had the technology to
actually like the soil sample and they
yeah yeah very very cool yeah all right
let's get into the top stories we're
following this week okay
the US Interior Department is grounding
its entire drone fleet for fear it could
be used against them overseas federal
land and resource management says it's
grounding its entire aerial drone fleet
of more than 800 UAVs out of concern for
Chinese spying and drone aided cyber
attacks every drone in use by the
Interior Department is either
manufactured in China or uses some
Chinese made parts interior security
David Bernhardt made the order two weeks
ago and the drones will remain grounded
until the department completes a review
of the security risks they may pose many
of the drones are currently used by the
department to help with combating forest
fires monitoring dams and floods
inspecting land for property and
environmental damage due to erosion and
monitoring endangered species some of
the concern is centered on whether the
drones could be used to transmit data
including photography and video of
sensitive US infrastructure that may be
the subject of future cyber attacks the
move is the US government's latest
escalation in its push to punish Chinese
companies for years of alleged trade
secret theft despite the u.s. purchasing
billions of dollars in products and
equipment from Chinese firms every year
US lawmakers last month introduced the
bill that would prevent federal agencies
from purchasing drones from China
something that could greatly impact
Chinese drone giant DJ eyes business
federal agencies have warned against
using DJI products in the past but the
company has never faced an outright ban
a spokesperson for DJI said quote as the
leader in commercial drone technology we
have worked with the Department of
Interior to create a safe and secure
drone solution that meets their rigorous
requirements which was developed over
the course of 15 months with DOI
officials independent cybersecurity
professionals and experts at NASA we
will continue to support the Department
of Interior and provide provide
assistance as it reviews its drone fleet
so the agency can quickly resume the use
of drones to help federal workers
conduct vital operations so I hope that
the decision to ground the fleet is
based upon security and not politics
information will say because if it's
based on politics and I weed we don't
get in we try not to get into politics
here here's what I will say ok people
love to use drones people need to use
drones now we have come accustomed to
them we want consumers you mean
consumers and industries I mean I even
just heard in the news today that our
local community wants to use drone
different defibrillators oh that's
amazing yes so smart yeah so drones have
become a part of our everyday life and
can I just say can I just inject here
drones we're using the term drones and
that's what's in the news story we're
talking quad copters and hexacopters
we're not talking military units we're
talking devices that are designed to
assist and we're leaning into that
technology we are leaning away from it
so if the US wants to stop using amazing
DJI drones mm-hmm they've got to come up
with a solution that's better
american-made the truth of the matter is
they make really good products and and
nobody's gonna want to dial it back yeah
they're so good that you almost look
past the Venus but is there if eNOS I
mean it sounds to me as though DJI has
done their due diligence they've worked
with the military they've worked with
the government they've worked with
cybersecurity professionals in order to
develop the technology that is in use
I'm so I would say that they're doing
their part so why not that's how it
feels and I say that with reluctance
because there's always there's always
the chance right but come on the
American government has the the power
the manpower the smarts to
reverse-engineer firmwares
yes they can look at what packets are
being sent and transmitted but
realistically we're talking about
devices that are designed to assess
exactly as you mentioned defibrillation
yeah I can get a defibrillator to you in
minutes rather than having to get it
there on an ambulance right when you're
in the middle like we're here in Canada
so when you're in the middle of
Algonquin Park exactly think about how
horrendous it would be if your spouse
went into cardiac arrest exactly if they
can if they can drown in a defibrillator
I can keep them alive yeah until
paramedics or help comes right right
minutes versus that the worst case
scenario and I don't want to discredit
that okay so if there is intelligence
that says these particular drones that
are saving lives are spying on you and
sharing the location of the
defibrillation unit with the Chinese
government because they because they
care right they want to come on
realistically like why why does the
Chinese government care that you are
putting out a fire in this particular
area like it
this doesn't make any sense to me
realistically again if there's
intelligence then let me know but yeah I
know we don't know the in my hands it
just seems a little bit yeah strange
play I'll just leave it it it seems like
trade wars yeah
to me that's opinion I know I'm sorry
yeah I would like I would like real
solid proof yeah that DJI is doing
something untoward sure I'd and I have
not yet seen it we've yet to see proof
that DJI and we've heard this in the
news and as you mentioned DJI has
they've warned against the use of DJI
technology not because there's anything
wrong with them but because they're
Chinese
what the heck yeah since when like since
when you're not going to comment on that
we stay away from politics since when
Sasha I think you know let's move along
Google and promises that they will not
exploit all that health data to serve
ads Google will pay 2 point 1 billion
dollars to acquire Fitbit the second
largest company in the wearables market
inserting itself into a world
increasingly dominated by Apple and
continuing the mass consolidation of
consumer technology by the big three
corporations Amazon being the third
party offering $7.35 a share Google was
prepared to pay a 70 percent premium to
take control of the company although the
overall evaluation is not even twice
fitbit's
annual revenue serving to illustrate the
company's recent struggles it is
Google's fifth largest acquisition more
than it paid for YouTube or ways back in
the day and illustrates two things first
that Google is increasingly focused on
hardware following its nest and Motorola
acquisitions and second that wherever
Apple or Amazon go Google follows
Google's efforts to repeat its approach
the mobile phone market with where OS
took a hit last year when Huawei ditched
it in favor of its own a homegrown
operating system
Google clearly decided that it needed to
control some hardware in the market and
so a guarantee a foothold and a two
billion dollar acquisition of Fitbit was
the answer the biggest concern about the
acquisition given Google's business
model is what the web giant will now do
with the vast amounts of personal data
it will now acquire senior VP of devices
and services Rick österlen addressed
this point saying when you use our
products you're trusting Google with
your information we understand this is a
big responsibility and we work hard to
protect your information put you in
control and give you transparency about
your data end quote
he goes on to clarify quote similar to
our other products with wearables we
will be transparent about the data we
collect and why we will never sell
personal information to anyone fitbit
health and wellness data will not be
used for google ads and we will give
Fitbit users that tries to review move
or delete their data unquote
Fitbit customers have been complaining
for years about the declining quality of
its products and software so Google's
inevitable migration to its system will
probably result in a better user
experience over time looking at the
bigger picture however the acquisition
of Fitbit will only add to arguments by
governments and regulators that the big
three Google Apple and Amazon have too
much power and a reducing competition
across a whole range of markets yeah and
I think data is the currency these days
right that's really really true and do
you know how much data is Fitbit has on
do you know I don't know what do you
look at that there is nothing she's got
a Google device on her wrist so here's
the thing I love Fitbit yes I also
actually love Google independently of
one another Bentley
what if they were amalgamated I don't
love them to be able to marry together
data points about me
that I would like to keep separates okay
and I think that they'll now have that
right well they know how your heart rate
don't know my heart rate and my location
yes they know where you shop they know
where I yeah they know where I shop they
didn't know what I would do anyways
you've got an Android phone so they know
where you are yeah yeah but I which
works fantastically this is why a
Starbucks opened up on my route to work
right they knew where I where I travel
it knows health things about me sure and
I'm okay with that
Google doesn't know health things about
me hmm
right like okay cool doesn't know how I
sleep at night Fitbit does knows exactly
how well I said that's interesting right
Google might find out that I am more apt
to buy something when I've had less than
seven hours of sleep sure and then they
say that they're not gonna push they say
that they can say that they're not
idiots though no they'll find a way why
were Google I would say that yeah of
course they'd say that truth of the
matter is that there has to be true now
like I weigh my I weigh myself daily on
my Fitbit scale okay if my weight goes
up Google is now gonna send me something
new jeans
oh my goodness I'm not sure about this
whole Fitbit and Google marriage even
though I love both of them I don't know
which one I need to break up with even
in our chat room no man five is having
trouble with this whole marriage of
Google and Fitbit saying that he's
thinking about stopping using his Fitbit
just because of this and I see at first
when I first heard this story it was DJ
wheels that sent it to you first when I
first heard the story I was excited oh
yes because I love both of them but you
know and then I kind of like let it
marinate a little bit inside my head and
I thought no I don't want like Fitbit
knows details about my health like they
know my mic what I
eat my liquid input mostly because I add
that in but drinking the water
exactly but yeah they know yes sleep but
Google knows my driving habits because
at Google Maps well now it's all if I
don't stay solid ate it together what if
I don't sleep well no accent right gonna
know that ah the government is involved
okay will because Google's gonna buy
your insurance company
you watch cuz they're just buying up
companies like thank you it it gets
complicated when you start thinking okay
well now am I gonna be declined
something that I want like say some sort
of critical illness insurance because
now they can see that I don't eat right
or sleep well or I do all of those very
well but this is hypothetical or you
know if my BMI has been increasing or my
heart rates a little off the chart it's
an interesting thought and it really
sounds sci-fi to me yeah but we're
seeing it take place like we're at that
early stage of this right but then at
the same time it's kind of cool to think
that they would be able to monitor the
heart rate of everybody to show you yeah
and it makes absolutely sense as an
acquisition Oh
kugel needed to make this move and
Fitbit Fitbit has been not fabulous and
I'll just say that Fitbit was on its way
down so Fitbit will have gone out of
business so if you love Fitbit if you
use your Fitbit device well think of it
this way Google saved it so your device
is gonna keep working thanks to Google
yes
plain and simple I'm just having a
really hard time with it it feels very
Madhu Sasha and viewers who use Fitbit
is keep an eye on the changes in the
privacy terms keep an eye on the terms
and service keep an eye on changes in
the rights that they have access to your
data and what they're allowed to use
that data for because as they've said so
there's clever wording here and think
about that and you're not gonna hear
this on traditional news media but
there's clever wording here when they're
saying we are not going to
use your data for this and that yeah
we're not gonna use it for ads but no
we're not there's a ton of other things
they could use it but we're going to
collect that data yeah so remember
they're collecting it they're holding on
to it it is part of the data the data
set that is you and then as those terms
and conditions change five years from
now when people forget about the
acquisition yeah and just trust that
this thing is working if they don't read
those terms and conditions now all of a
sudden well I am getting new gene
advertising or I am getting some skewed
results when I google things
yeah or how integrated might have become
with the medical industry and I say that
because Fitbit recently sent me a little
push notification did you know that you
can print yourself a report to take to
your doctor yeah that sure that's cool
though that's me so I did it I didn't
print a PDF printed it but and I loved
it I thought well I don't have any need
to go to the doctor right now but if I
did I would bring this and it shows
tracking of your highs and your lows of
every marker and your how'd you sleep
last night well here you go check out my
report exactly the worst sleep I've ever
had the best sleep I've ever had and
here's the average I loved it but at
what points is the doctor automatically
got that I supposed to be sharing in
write to me calls me up and says you
need to come in because I've noticed
that your heart rates off the charts
I've got I've noticed that a is hold me
hey Robbie your BMI is really high yeah
I was crazy right too much alcohol in
your system it's a little bit like like
Minority Report or something can I mean
it can get that way yeah yeah we've got
to take a quick break the crept over
report and more of this week's top tech
stories are coming up don't go anywhere
[Music]
the category 5 TV newsroom and looking
at the crypto market Sasha and how
things have changed over the past week
as far as the category 5 crypto report
goes so you can find that a category 5
dot TV slash crypto report things have
not really changed a lot however Bitcoin
has lost a fair bet losing over $500
it's down at eight thousand seven
hundred and seventy eight dollars and 71
cents u.s. dollars that's the value of a
single Bitcoin we're still looking for
Libra but it's not trading yet we've got
litecoin also losing a dollar sixty one
it's a sixty one dollars and forty-five
cents we've got the etherium coin which
is the only coin that we are currently
tracking that gained this week gaining
just a little bit it's up at 186 twenty
Manero is at sixty two dollars and 89
cents pretty much on par with where it
was last week Scala is at zero point two
nine ten thousandth of a cent and turtle
coin interestingly about midweek last
week we saw it starting to spike we saw
it starting to climb and I was like what
is happening are we finally going to the
moon and then it dropped back down
that's the thing with the crypto report
is that I wonder what happens from week
to week because like Bitcoin or turtle
coin could just be like okay kind of the
same from one week to the next
cuz it is so crazy and those micro coins
really can fluctuate so you can get
really really excited about the turtle
coin because like a fluctuation when
you're talking about ten thousandth of a
cent could only be a one cent
fluctuation but it's huge as far as
graphs go right when you look at Bitcoin
which is hovering around nine thousand
dollars per coin a one cent differential
it's not gonna make a difference
whatsoever so but do remember as sasha
was saying like it's always moving it's
always changing the crypto market never
closes it's open 24/7 that means if I go
to bed at night thinking I'm doing
really really well with my
cryptocurrency I could get up in the
morning and it's completely skewed the
other way so
when you invest when you spend anything
on cryptocurrency our recommendation
here at category-five TV is to only
spend what you can afford to lose it is
a gamble to get involved in
cryptocurrency whatsoever I will say in
in the crypto report my favorite is
turtle coin only because I I love the
name I can just picture slow and steady
these tiny little baby turtles that just
like erupted from their shells and the
beachy sand exactly how it works to the
ocean and they're trying so hard that's
all you have to just stand by the ocean
and wait and go to the moon yes we're on
our way there folks Microsoft edge is
coming to Linux news that a linux port
of the chromium based edge browser is on
the way isn't too much of a surprise
given that Microsoft developers have
teased the possibility several times
before they've previously gone on record
as saying that edge for Linux is
something that we'd like to do and
something that would happen eventually
they even launched a survey to scope out
feedback on the idea from existing Linux
users but now edge for Linux is official
and Microsoft says it will be out next
year when Microsoft announced it was
rebuilding its edge browser on top of
the current of chromium the likelihood
of a native Linux port increased
substantially due to the cross-platform
nature of the codebase after all an
assortment of chromium based web
browsers already support Linux including
Google Chrome Vivaldi Opera Yandex and
SR SR where iron for its part though
Microsoft seems to be understanding how
open-source works
edge has become an active contributing
member to the chromium open source
project which means work done for edge
can in turn benefit other browsers
including ones you might actually want
to use mmm I'm actually glad that you
made that statement because the whole
time you're talking I'm thinking
muah-muah who cares yeah it's like
Microsoft doesn't at all understand the
industry and this is Microsoft yeah
nobody and I speak generally I may be
generalizing here but nobody who is
proficient enough on their computer to
be a proficient Linux user wants edge no
period zero however then you said that
they're contributing back to open source
and it may assess the chromium project
and so I'm like okay that's kind of nice
of them if it's good I want to see their
commits I want to see their PRS I want
to see what they're contributing back
and whether it's actually worth our
while is there any chance they would
ever do something where they weren't
getting more than they were giving
Microsoft yeah no they own github so
they're always going to be getting more
than they're giving period
yeah period and they have machine
learning and they have a a I that can
culminate the data on github and pull it
all into their own projects for sure
it's it's not surprising I don't think I
do have Windows 10 on a couple of my
computers at work I have to for certain
things yeah and I don't use edge on
those because it sucks and nobody should
use edge I don't think it does anybody
actually use edge does anybody I think
the only people that I've ever
encountered Sasha who use edge and you
can correct me if it like if you're a
die-hard edge lover please look you
don't correct me but I think that the
only people who use it are those who
accidentally use it yeah they look at
the e and they think it's Internet
Explorer because they're so novice that
they don't understand yeah I feel like
anything about anything
if I
on edge it would be like I was standing
in his desert anybody out there if
you're on your way there as some people
might be thinking oh but I think I use
the e the blue e and if you do bring up
the blue e and type in install Chrome
yeah and just see what happens and it's
interesting that when you do that edge
will say well but edge is faster and it
just better this week dude just back off
man this is like this is like the needy
boyfriend right that's like oh I give me
another chance are you sure I felt like
that Facebook did that to me when I
broke up dear no like Chrome Firefox I'm
not I'm not in love with Firefox right
now Mozilla is making some really bad
decisions but that is you know that's
between me and Firefox I will have it
out eventually I use Chrome for the most
part I feel like I only use Chrome
always yeah I think I think also the
integration of Google's software
Google's services because I I've been
using Google Drive a lot Google Docs and
so that's where I do a lot of my because
I can open them just like having word
yes on all of my computers doesn't
matter if they're Linux Windows Mac
doesn't matter and so I love that and it
doesn't even matter if they're powerful
enough or I don't have to have software
licenses I just log in and I'm in so I
do like Chrome for that
I definitely love it yeah this is not a
Chrome advertisement this is an anti my
love for Chrome runs deep but understand
though ok so just quickly because I know
we've gotta move on ok but Chrome which
we love is based on chromium yes edge
which we despise is based on chromium
they're both pulling that the same
underlying software rights Microsoft's
edge browser is dead
Microsoft themselves have killed it and
said this sucks
Microsoft said that not verbatim however
they said we're no longer gonna develop
it based on our own codebase we're gonna
base it on the same codebase the chrome
uses right we're gonna our edge is
sucking so bad we're gonna make it based
on Chrome
so they're actually edges based on
Chrome now basically just like a chrome
echo should change the name yeah so I'm
just like so putting that into
perspective so yeah they might give back
and we'll see what they give back but I
think it's all just no but no Liu nobody
wants it oh don't put it on Linux and
that bothers me because no Linux user
wants edge right all right I would
assume so correct us I want to be
correct us if you love Linux and also
edge let me know and I will wonder about
yours I will pray for you no but what
bothers me about this is that I feel
like this is one of those tactics by a
big company that's going to say we tried
Linux Adobe we tried Linux and it just
game developers oh we tried Linux
right yeah and well it didn't really fly
well so we tried Linux we brought our
edge browser to Linux and people didn't
like it so we're just we're just not
going to support the open source it just
feels like that no no what they're not
stupid yeah nobody wants edge on Linux
yeah nobody so correct me if I'm wrong
that's how I feel so it feels like this
is a tactic they're saying here's edge
for Linux here you go
install and enjoy Oh nobody installed it
oh I guess
well Linux is notic is not for know you
know we're not gonna support Linux we're
not going to put our investment dollars
into Linux
our development time doesn't feel that
way yeah that's just my opinion it's not
based on anything factual like a
five-year update on this story we're
like oh we were wrong let's look at
everybody make it yeah Robbie is like
I'm gonna show you the latest features
an edge finally here we are five years
later we have plugins the late James
Dean is getting digitally restored for
an upcoming movie and many on the
internet including Chris Evans aren't
happy magic city films as announced that
thanks to movie magic technology it has
Castine in its upcoming drama finding
Jack but he died in a car crash in 1955
when he was just 24 years old Dean only
appeared in three feature films before
his death and has been cast posthumously
as a secondary character in the coming
Vietnam war drama fans of the actor
words exactly excited about the news on
social media Zelda Williams actor and
daughter of the late Robin Williams
tweeted quote publicity stunts or not
this is puppeteering of the dead for
their clout alone and it sets such an
awful precedent for the future of
performance
end quote their recently launched
production house Magic City films
obtained the rights to use Dean's image
from his family co-director Anton Ernst
says quote we feel very honored that his
family supports us and will take every
precaution to ensure that his legacy as
one of the most epic film stars to date
is kept firmly intact and quote well
finding Jack will be a live action
Dean's performance will be constructed
VF full-body CGI using actual footage
and photos another actor will voice him
unbelievable that we're there yeah I
mean we've seen deep fakes yeah they're
incredible
mind-blowing now they're going to create
the actor and and I know that's
been done before in some ways oh yeah
we've seen performances done by major
stars oh yeah yeah but this is taking
somebody who created films in the 50s
bringing him back to life in color I am
NOT opposed to this okay I am NOT
opposed to this I like it actually and
you've expressed an interest in this
type of technology before yes it feels a
little tiny bit black mirror but yes but
it has enough time passed though I could
say he's 88 or he would I feel like and
I might be speaking out of turn but if I
were James Dean and 88 years old I would
want to see myself as a youth as a youth
yes like who what that I would I think
that this will be an incredible I'm
assuming they'll be honoring him if
they're not gonna be doing something
that's the idea right like I know it
would be different if they were I guess
throwing them dragging him through the
mud but no the idea here is they're
making his fourth movie that's the idea
like that's the premise here is that
James Dean will be this one of the stars
not the leading role but a star in his
fourth movie I I am all for this because
I would like for that to be able to
happen for me or for you sure you could
have the night off tonight right okay
after I pass long from now 100 years
from now what didn't it be so cool to be
like this is what Sasha was like younger
generation like voiced by Gilbert
Godfrey do this also for River Phoenix
and I realized you'll probably need to
get his families sure well that's too
soon I don't know we're talking about
though James Dean Dean right and could
we start to see and and that's a that's
a whole ethical dilemma too right
like when does a human's persona become
public domain well is that even a thing
right
but that's gonna help if it were
Disney's it would never happen because
Disney likes it keep it but don't you
think that's going to happen we're at
the point now where so much time has
passed since recorded history began and
I I don't mean like recorded on a stone
tablet I mean recorded like video audio
we're getting to that point where soon
it's gonna be a hundred years on then
it's gonna be a hundred and fifty years
on in my children's generation like
we're looking 100 hundred hundred and
thirty years on for some of these actors
and yeah when are we going to see those
actors rebirthed and brought back and
where is the the moral compass when it
comes to that I just up to the estate
make that decision I suppose I think
it's up to the estate I think once
you've kind of lent yourself to film you
are now part of film like I feel like
there is that and that's hard for us to
accept but we're seeing I mean yeah when
you're when you're like I know that a
celeb that I know it's puppeteering of
the dead but yeah but it's no different
than splicing clips of you know save
Robin Williams to say that he didn't say
no what anybody would have done that but
that's not to be fair to Zelda I
wouldn't bring back Robin Williams not
now not yet it's fresh 80 years from now
yes or 50 years from now maybe that's
acceptable yeah but not now
yeah right I think it's funny that Chris
Evans did voice is concerned Thank You
Captain America and and a lot of folks
have but I even saw Bette Midler
tweeting she was she was joking about
how white male actors get jobs even if
they're dead like that's
it's like technology but I think to
myself wouldn't Bette Middler want to do
a movie with her own self but younger
how cool would that be
woollen Will Smith is doing that in a
manner of speaking what he has a movie
that is just that where he's Co acting
with his 20 year old self which is
really kind of me that's kind of similar
technology right it might be still alive
so he can give the a okay and he can act
the second actor and then they just D
age technology it's a little bit of a
different technology for sure obviously
but I love it mm-hmm I'd like to see how
it goes
will you see it will you watch the movie
that's it and this is a question for the
community comment below would you watch
it James Dean starring in a new movie in
2020 would you watch it or is there an
ethical dilemma that prevents you from
feeling right about watching and
supporting that would that be there is
no ethic I know I don't feel like
there's an ethical I do say that a
little bit like I personally will
probably I'd be very interested to see
it but there are those who are really
uncool with bringing back an actor who
has passed and I can understand that
I can I can respect that I I have a
heart I'm so pro the process then it's
hard for me to see the flip side of it
it's hard for me to see the side that's
bad about bringing back to light
somebody who obviously loved to
entertain and let them continue to do so
comment below let us know what you think
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at
calm / a newsroom from the category 5 TV
newsroom and Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson
