covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias researchers in Australia
claim they have recorded the fastest
ever internet data speed a team from
Menashe Swinburne at RMIT universities
logged a data speed of forty four point
two terabytes per second at that speed
you could download more than 1,000 High
Definition movies or all thirteen
seasons of category five technology TV
in under one second and we'd upgrade our
live stream to 16 K just because we can
the average UK broadband speed is
currently around 64 megabits per second
so this would be roughly 700,000 times
faster than what most people in the UK
experience day to day Australia lies in
the middle of global rankings for
internet speeds and show connections are
a regular source of complaints from
users researchers said they achieved the
new record speed by using a device that
replaces around 80 lasers found in some
existing telecom hardware with a single
piece of equipment known as a micro comb
the micro comb was planted into and
tested outside the laboratory using
existing infrastructure similar to what
to that used by Australia's national
broadcast network the result was the
highest amount of data ever produced by
a single optical chip which are used in
modern fiber-optic broadband systems
around the world the Australian team
hoped their findings offer a glimpse
into how Internet connections could look
in the future while the data speed for
outstrips far outstrips any reasonable
consumer need in today's world bill
kokorin lecturer in electrical and
computer systems at Monash University
said it could ultimately help transform
a wide variety of industries as modern
life continues to put increasing
pressure on bandwidth infrastructure mr.
Krekorian says what our research
demonstrates is the ability for fibres
that we already have in the ground to be
the backbone of communications networks
now and in the future he goes on to say
it's not just Netflix we're talking
about here this data
be used for self-driving cars and future
transportation and it can help the
medicine education finance and
e-commerce industries as well as enable
us to read with our grandchildren from
kilometers away
[Music]
