welcome to the coffee break everybody
our category five community coffee break
happens once a week right now we're
doing it on Sundays we'll see I think
this is great and it's good to see all
of those who have been able to make it
today but this is a chance for us just
to get together as a community and say
hi obviously this is not representative
of our entire community so we'll say
each of you who is sitting here today
represents 10,000 people how does that
make you feel Congress now look at that
[Laughter]
they would sometimes say after three
people called in and they are saying
that all equals so Wow yeah yeah I guess
that's the way it works it is June 14 20
20 if you can believe it we're still
under these crazy regulations which were
not allowed to talk about on a coffee
break but one thing that I am seeing
change a little bit here in Barry is
that people are like contractors and
trades people are going back to work
observing social distancing but the the
good news behind that is that well I was
backing up a little bit our contractor
the one that I had hired before the
pandemic dropped as soon as he was
allowed to go back to work of course all
of a sudden he is he's so busy that he
doesn't he doesn't even return emails at
this point so inundated yeah so and I
don't blame him for that like it's I'm
small fries like I mean if he's building
somebody's basement out and you know
like that's a big job and and so to come
and hang up drapes for a studio is you
know it's not gonna be his top priority
but here at Studio II as you may or may
not know Jen wagger who used to be a
host on new every day
faith broadcast on our network her
church is is utilizing the studio
Saturday or Sunday mornings to do their
service because they can't hold a
service so so I'm here just kind of
pushing the buttons
Townley comes in with me and and she
takes Kara she's kind of like my
Associate Producer so between you and me
that's that's like a little way to get
her trained on how to be an editor and
producer so it's a good opportunity
because I'm actually normally during my
show I'd be in the studio so I'm
actually here in the production room and
popping it yeah so that's good
experience for us with a great
experience
yeah is relatively easy to like low
demand here yeah welcome Peter yeah and
I see sold ooh Lance man 63 marsh man
vp9 and here with us as well
so all that to say we were here this
morning and they're there like it's 9:30
in the morning and all of a sudden we
start hearing somebody with a rotary saw
me so our studio is not soundproof
we definitely take advantage of the fact
that because we broadcast tech TV at 7
o'clock at night or maybe 11 o'clock at
night who knows there's typically nobody
else in the building so or at least it's
you know they're sitting at a desk doing
paperwork or something so it's pretty
quiet so all this to say I hear a rotary
saw and I'm like oh no this is gonna
their church service this morning so I
ran out into the hallway and I said look
we're like a half hour out from doing a
church service and we're going to be
doing that for an hour you know is there
any way they you know you can try to do
all your cutting now and
and and he was just the nicest guy he
just like he's like oh yeah no problem
he's really kind and considerate and
respected the fact that we were about to
do a church service so I just you know
that was like cool and then he gave me
his business card and turns out that
this contractor actually that like their
their office is here in the mall how
crazy ideal is that so I said like are
you taking jobs right now how busy are
you and he's like oh yeah and we're
right here in the mall so it's it's
really convenient so he could just come
by you know meet me here after hours
some day or something and take a look so
so not wanting to push I was there yeah
he's not hurt like if the bathroom
needed to and I think that's exactly
what's happening that's what I mean by
like hanging drapes in a TV studio is
not a high priority right now we can
operate without right so yeah so I'm
just I'm really excited that I mean it
I don't know I'm a very personal guy
like I really I like to know people and
get so the first contractor that I hired
the reason I wanted to hire him is like
he's a great guy I really like the guy
he does good work but he's a a kind guy
I trust him and and that's a big part of
it so when I what you know I don't want
to take business away from him it's not
about the business it's about the
personal like hey I like that guy I want
to work with him but this guy seemed
really cool so so that's that could be
good so all that to say I've been
learning to accept the fact that I am
gonna have to do some of the things
myself that I wasn't originally planning
to do and I'm having to adapt and I
think the biggest thing that I'm having
to try to figure out is some of you know
that I had originally wanted to build a
desk that looked kind of like a newsroom
set with you know three chairs at it and
everything and now we're finding out
that you've got to be six feet apart and
or wear a mask and it's like okay that
doesn't really work with three people
sitting next to one another on at a desk
so I got to figure out how things have
changed but one thing that's really
important is getting the wiring from the
studio into the production room here and
so I talked with bollock now ski from
Ameritrade and we we kind of got
chatting about it and he came up with
this amazing thing you guys got to go to
his website Ameritrade comm and click
into the products the new products and
what Beau designed is because he has 3d
printing capabilities and mad skills
when it comes to like working I don't
even know how you do it
like he builds it in 3d space in the
computer program and then sends it to
the printer so what he's done is he's
made what looks like like a tube but
with a bit of a flange on the outside
and you put that through the hole that
I've drilled in the wall and then from
the other side you come back with
another one and they screw together so
now on both sides of the wall you've got
basically a passage to get the cables
through that's not a big stretch of PVC
and it looks like just a proper hole in
the wall but it has
because it's a tube it's nothing is
making contact with the drywall so and
you know you could have cut that PVC
down to like six inches or something
instead of it but then I just don't I'm
not that's don't have the tools I don't
have so I'd have to go to a hardware
store to buy a hacksaw and I don't want
to go to a hardware store I don't know
so okay yeah so I thought about the
dremel that you guys shot me down pretty
quickly cutting through three inch PVC
pipe with the drum if you just if you
decide to hang up you know some studio
lighting also make sure you have someone
there not to hit not to even help you
necessarily but ax man taught me just
don't even get up on a ladder without
someone okay he gave me a right that's
what I make as long as you've got
someone near to your room to : well here
it's not in one one but whatever yours
yes that's that's really you know the
whole point right
yeah if someone did I hope you can do
all the work just make sure that you
have someone there to call Beverly Marsh
man has made that very clear and I'm
heated that warning and and so even
moving into this space I didn't get up
on a ladder unless someone else was in
the room with me so and that's that's
good advice
yeah in a studio after hours where
nobody else is in the building until
10:00 a.m. the next morning yeah so so
I'm just gonna do really basic style my
mom told me about them and he finished
at school and when he was twelve or
something they had seven years in the
last day of the school after the last
year Dave of there was a week left or
something and they did a prank on the
teacher
trader up and they gagged her and put
her under the air the teacher's desk and
then they left
Friday afternoon what they didn't
account for was that they had people
coming to watch the school so they found
their after a few hours oh my gosh yeah
that's a that's a pretty scary prank
right there man I've I've run a print
well not run a prank I was helping with
a prank on a teacher by stuffing a
potato in the exhaust pipe of the car so
that it would not start and you know all
the mechanics in the group would open up
the hood and take the air filter off and
off the Cabrio so yeah look very few no
skin is here you know what hit the news
here in Barry is somebody went to their
neighbor's car and filled their tailpipe
with expansion foam oh no I think it's
even unwise to say it or even to put
that in the news because it's like oh
now somebody else is going to do that
and what a horrible thing to do to
somebody well my car is 100% electric so
I challenge anybody to find an exhaust
pot so for your car bp9 it's going to
sling it's going to be like her coat
litter glitter foot spray foam inside
the brake rotor just reverse the
hilarity a few books with the jokes and
one of them
a few lines going to shop for something
and she told her childhood don't put a
piece in your something yeah and then
you haven't had that idea exactly you
don't want to the idea now someone's
gonna try it peas in my nose it's that's
I think but one of the hardest things
about parenting you want to teach your
kids not to do things but by telling
them don't do that you're putting ideas
in their head basically you're inviting
them to do it I never would have thought
of that but you have to tell them is the
stuff you want him to do you tell him
not to do it
yes don't clean dad's car don't clean
don't don't clean your room if I was a
kid and I was told don't clean my room
I'm fine what's what's going on in your
guy's world as far as like projects go
what's keeping you occupied one of the
time soul boo soul is money Eric TV in
when he ripped something and one of the
items is it's a wraith or it's called or
and he want to have a local server that
you connect to in order to fetch the
information so we have been trying for a
few days to get that to work funder come
up with a project like that yeah Lance
man what are you up to dude well I told
you that I had a bed
DMI cable yeah just um we went on air
here so I I found that after I installed
Ubuntu I realized that after I went
through the problem of installing Ubuntu
and had a bad CD or DVD rather yeah I
had to find a USB Drive to put it on and
I installed it from a USB Drive yeah and
then I realized I couldn't play the
games I wanted to play out of boot too
so I went back to Windows No yeah that
was crazy you could do a dual boot I
would I would consider a dual boot
environment in a case like that if you
really needed Windows for something
because then at least you could get back
into linear or like using the web and
those kinds of things like your yeah
that's true yeah what a few people are
doing and even a few games they have an
installer and they have Bebo's yeah well
the windows in a virtual machine is not
necessarily the best environment for
gaming that's all
it may may have some hiccups so because
a lot of games require direct access to
the hardware yeah or you have a little
bit of like lag with the mouse or
something like that really installed
Linux and then he installed the windows
in a virtual machine and then windows in
the virtual machine was faster than it
ever was yeah you still don't get access
to the heart whether right but if it
works for you though it's sitting on a
non fragmenting filesystem so even
though NTFS will fragment itself the
filesystem that's holding that NTFS
virtual drive is not fragmented so that
may have some impact on performance
Marsh man what are you up to dude your
mic is off
I finally got my vim 3 what is that
doing for you I took a look at it it's
like a it adds a bunch of features to
the bin 3 like nvme or something like
that doesn't it yeah I'm an MBA me drive
the new style is really fantastic
because it just slides into the back of
the board
you're in it and it stays flat with the
board
unlike the original one which requires a
ribbon cable this one slides right it's
beautiful but sometimes you know we
complain about the raspberry PI's you
know because they're just not so
powerful but they're there documentation
is so much better than yeah a lot of
other SBC's
like I get this thing and I have the you
know I had to create a case for it all
right you just this mock-up but I get
the heatsink and the only way to put the
heatsink on is on the top and they give
you these screws that are triangle drive
bells not hex didn't give my angles
that's got a triangle drive did they not
send you the screwdriver with it
no no you gotta be that is just I'm
telling you know what I'm stepping away
here because I know I saw it recently in
my box of tricks of screws we have like
torque and a few others they started as
part of their some manufacturer didn't
want their people but talks I have with
the m3 though when I got the vim 3 with
the case and everything it came with a
little tiny screwdriver that has an
orange handle and that was that was the
triangular thing so I actually took a
sharpie and I wrote
then three on it so I have it somewhere
I really need to get like a tool chest
or something like that or some kind of a
stacking unit that has all my tools in
it because right now it's just like
boxes and I come across them but so
there is or just buy you another one I
guarantee you you're the original one
will show up after you buy the
replacement Oh yesa makes all that time
yeah but that wasn't the that's not the
worst part
it gets better heatsink
you screw you start the screw and it
gets all the way to the bottom of the
heat sink
he stops because the hole is a different
size no yeah it goes it goes from a to
an m2 to an M 1.5 what that and yeah how
do you attach it to the board so I had a
cake I had to take a pin vise and put a
drill bit in it and and manually drill
the bleep thing
Wow did so it's coming together though
oh it's finally got it I I mean you see
all these I know you see these let me
zoom in for these folks so that we can
see it a little better together and this
is actually a Raspberry Pi acrylic case
see all these extra screw holes here I
had a drill holes in the acrylic because
them three holes don't line up with
anything else on the planet they're just
all over the place but yeah yeah vim 3
with its riser hat in a case with the
Raspberry Pi logo on it and a Western
Digital black drive down cool that is
too cool and those are powerful little
SP seeds too I had a thing in a Bai chip
I think
homemaking yes vp9 what are you up to
dude well I'm still trying to solve the
puzzle of the of the I don't know if you
can see it the same thing I can pin your
video so Oh sure that'll work yeah so
you got the white oh and then your video
freezes Murphy's Law guys she throws the
white areas oh I'm back yeah okay I
don't see myself on the display though
I've got the funky-looking them and your
cameras doing what our exposure to by
the way yeah just on a webcam I hooked
up a webcam to the okay for the server
in the in this room here so so I think I
don't know if you can see it I'm gonna
jump to my view so that I can see it
better but the I don't know if that's
even in focus because I don't think the
camera is wanting to focus very well but
if you look with auto exposure well so
quick the phone just has what it has you
know it's focusing on my face but not on
what if I give that does that help could
you maybe if you drew a smiley way you
drew a smiley on the intercept
there's a picture of it anyway good
you'll see it you'll see a much better
picture than what I can do yeah yeah but
those those four holes that are spaced
very closely together I did a bunch of
research on the on the point 64 site and
on other sites that it branches off to a
fella by the name of luck young I think
his name is he's from Hong Kong I think
and he's been doing a lot of work on on
these on these Rutter I am fine times
yeah and he says that he does not use
the original programming cable that came
with all the fine time
because the pins are too small they
make a reliable connection so you said
your best bet is to go is to go get some
AWG 22 so 22 gauge wire little bit
thicker than these pins and will work a
little more reliably so when you take
them spear having held that like if I
was to tin the cable the kind of tines
that I'm gonna take that 22 gauge wire
and I'm gonna tin it so it'll be solid
strand not not not stranded right and
also be just a little bit thicker and
I'm hoping I don't put so much solder on
then it's tricky to put in there
I really in the clinic the whole
tablespoon for flux so I'm not gonna
solve it the the wires in place I just
don't want to do that because and the
fact is that if I want to get this to a
point where I can program it and use it
I'm gonna have to wear it at some point
so I want to ultimately avoid doing that
yeah ultimately avoid tearing it up to a
point where I can't wear it so and if
not this unit then whatever other unit I
am that end up getting after all
ultimately my plan is to wear the thing
so yeah I'll probably break it anyway
because anything I put on my wrist I can
to tear up in any case so yeah you know
it is what it is arise you still haven't
got it you still haven't got it yeah boy
yeah well I still haven't solved the
problem of once as soon as I connect at
the rust repair shuts down I starts to
get around that nobody else seems to be
having a problem with that so maybe I
just have to get mean you're a spy or
something I don't know there's no
message just to say why it's doing it or
what I don't know so much
I'm currently block them I'm currently
just just stalled on there and and I
can't move forward till I solved that I
hope you do yeah let us know how many to
me my client arrives I'm gonna start
playing as well Lance man ring you had a
question for me and I want to throw over
to Peter because yeah almost at a time
I was wondering I
discord on my phone but how do I find
cat fives discord server if you go to
our website category 5 TV click on
interact on the menu and then you'll see
join the discord server and there that
that will launch a window that says
Robbie Ferguson is inviting you to the
discord server and you just click join
and it'll add it add it to your list so
thank you yeah
because you know that in but multiple
times you're gonna show up in the
discord multiple times with different
usernames only counts I don't know as
Peter we have him under about 300
different discord names real quick cuz
we're just about out of time but I want
to give you a chance to tell us what you
have two jobs the problem is don't
understand the government's working and
back to program the new books audiobooks
video but one of my friends as I said on
the thing angered we would enjoy working
on 3w really a co-op really connected to
it and we have the nine teenagers go
comes on is nobody not very well it's
very not very well very ill I agree the
clothes gromer cuz he he's deserts he's
all very well most on young but yeah you
know and I managed to make tomorrow
bourbon angley's coming tomorrow and go
we're in the fixed monthly gharial know
I should be calibrated aboard okay
is the aerial for your ham radio set up
yeah very cool well it's twelve meters
you get him up on the top and then your
social distancing the climbing no
Chladni vocal I used to join but not now
because I'm gay yeah but they talked
about working did work operations eating
on Russia or you judge did you note the
other day work teams are you writing I
which is a you you because his doll
and today a Mongolian Volga so I did
what well on that on a few watch using
my Longworth but I went up ten meters
and I think I had to local Catholic
Church rule Gulf states
I forgot you go for the be are at the
RNIB lovely RGB world works working or
Catholic judge a good like so ago
so were you receiving them or were you
transmitting on their channel I wonder
it makes me wonder how much of it comes
down to like the wireless mic packs we
use right so light no like that's what
I'm on right now right no because I'm on
UHF little bit like I know they did it
before they go there there they go there
a finger DJ so they were using it to
broadcast those Catholic churches with
their hacker broadcasts a set up in the
basement in a little tower on the mast
in a way you don't play ball way better
money so it's tough because I'm sure
like any church or any like churches are
looking for ways to be able to bring
their services to their congregation
right now so it makes sense the
broadcast would be a way to do it would
be a state I think maybe the Internet is
a better way to go and I hope amended to
me like as major as well however man
they're covered with their day so I'm
trying to oblige of over you look yeah
oh yes yeah yeah good little setup going
so if you're gonna broadcast your
services or whatever you're gonna do
make sure you get a license okay because
you don't want to get you don't want to
get charged for not having a license to
broadcast like yeah I know I know you do
but hey that neighboring church we are
all at a time it's been great saying yes
and looking forward to seeing you
Wednesday we had some technical
difficulties this past Wednesday so I
wasn't able to get the show up until
Thursday evening but at least that was
like I think a reliable way to do it
I'll let you guys know what's gonna
happen but I'll always be here I will
always be here at the studio on
Wednesday night is whether or not I'm
able to go live that's that's what I'm
not sure yeah thank you go I have to go
big oh yes yeah I know I know
believe me dude so do i I don't intend
to broadcast at 12 o'clock midnight
that's been crying on the floor for a
half hour already that's that's that
point do my best I'll do my absolute
best every Wednesday to be on time if
technology doesn't allow it I think
maybe I'll make the call a little bit
earlier this week if it happens again
and then we'll figure it out so how long
after the scheduled time that you are
calling it as far as when the website
says thank you for participating to
account for the fact that I'm not always
able to go live so but we'll get there
it's tough being all by myself and you
know it takes it takes a huge
work to get a show up and running for
you guys so so thank you for sticking
with me and and I hope that you enjoy
even if it's on demand the next day or
whatever I have to do to make it I'll
always have a show for you that's my
goal so I'm not taking downtime or
anything like that as far as I know but
I do have some plans just to wrap up
because we're over time
July 1st July 1st is a holiday here in
Canada and it falls on a Wednesday so
I'm very pleased about that because it
means I can be here all day treat it
like a workday get some things done and
hopefully like start cracking a head and
now that we might have somebody who
could do some contract work for us
that's been a help as well so yeah well
see everybody nice to see you and I'll
see you again well this week in our
discord and I'll see you on Wednesday as
well take care bye
