welcome to category five technology TV
well this week we have a mysterious
unboxing there's not a lot of labels
going on on here but you are definitely
going to be excited about this we're
talking about how open-source has kind
of come together to bring us something
that is really rocking my world right
now we're going to just kind of check
things out and just see what's inside
this box we've also got a game that is
celebrating 35 years and we're gonna
show you how you can install it on any
Linux computer in under three seconds
stick around our live recordings are
trusted only to solid-state drives by
Kingston technology revive your computer
with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit our website
category 5 TV category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here cat 5 TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia IV
welcome to the show everybody it's so
great to have you here Sasha and I are
here nice to see ya
nice to see you too rock this thing for
the next hour oh yeah are you ready
it's gonna be fun we've got a lot to
cover tonight of course we've got a
really exciting unboxing of a very
plain-looking box for you this week it
is so it's for you now on the inside I
assure you it's something that's gonna
get us really really excited also we're
gonna be looking at well a particular
game from the retro era and you want to
stick around for that but nice to see
everybody it's nice to have you here
this week again we are joined by our
discord community so these are folks
that are participating in a live show
which happens on a Wednesday night at 7
o'clock Eastern Time so we are located
in Barrie Ontario just north of Toronto
beautiful city here if you're visiting
this
make sure you stop in say hi here at the
studio
make sure you pop us an email let us
know you're on your way and we would
love to have you join us but our discord
channel is powered by something called
Titan and in fact it's a software
application that is open-source and
Titan embeds has been made into what I
call Titan Pi mm-hmm and I've been
talking about this for several weeks now
as I've been kind of developing it and
letting it run and and so now it's at
the point Titan PI is at the point where
it just runs right that's exactly where
you want your server software to be
folks so if you remember back when we
used to use Titan and beds
well sometimes this would get locked up
so the chat would stop working and we'd
have to stop the show and go over and
restart the feed and everything else no
and I haven't restarted this thing I
haven't done anything with it right in
six weeks
yeah what I've done is I've taken the
open source software from Titan embeds
put it into a Raspberry Pi build of
Debian buster
so it's Debian 10 which you can get on
my blog bald nerd comm if you click on a
single board computing you'll see that
there are build bases there and so I've
created build basis for multiple
different 4s pcs single board computers
raspberry pi being one of them and with
that then I took and I compiled this
software from Titan embeds so it's open
source this is what's so beautiful about
open source software right it's like
they have a server they've made it
publicly available and it's free to use
and I encourage you to try it out if
you're into discord but it was
problematic on the air so I said well
let's try to do this locally if I was to
put this locally would it be a little
more successful and it has been yeah so
on now there's a reason I call it Titan
hi Sasha any guesses nope none because
it's on a PI it is
literally on a Raspberry Pi
microcomputer oh so it's running on a
Raspberry Pi 3 microcomputer which is
just like a dirt cheap little yeah and
I've got that thing running 24/7 for the
past six weeks running this Titan embeds
Titan pi that I've created and it's been
flawless so if you are interested in
that hey send me an email live at
category five TV and I'm pretty much at
this point prepared to release that
publicly because it's been working so
flawlessly it's been working so well and
I think that's a really great project so
it just kind of shows Sasha and
community how open-source is really an
incredible way to distribute software
right Titan and beds has done all the
work I've done a little bit of work yeah
I did I
my contribution Sasha is just taking
what they've created yeah and made it
work on a Raspberry Pi made it so that
it's something that you can just
download install and boot and it's
basically working right but that's
that's really it so open-source lets me
do that so I didn't have to create the
system but I just I gave of myself to
say okay well I'm good at distributions
right right so they're good at discord
and creating this system here that you
see I'm good at distributions I do names
Linux names Linux comm check it out so
I've got that experience and so I can
give back to open source now and say
okay I've created this thing and now I'm
gonna give it back to the community and
say here is this free software that you
can install on your arrest berry pie
right and so now Titan benefits from
that the Titan community and benefits
from that and anyone who uses discord
benefits from that because it makes
embedding discord chats absolutely easy
breezy and beautiful to like this is all
styled to suit our show like have you
ever seen
discord like in a
of the screen like that it's all part of
it right yeah
it's just all CSS essentially so that's
excellent and that's what open source
represents yes and that's what names is
about and that's what a lot of different
open source technologies are about even
Linux itself like it when you think
about Linux and you think about say
Linux Mint or Ubuntu even going as far
as saying canonical Xubuntu and saying
well this is like taking all of the
great things that have been created by
all these wonderful people who have
dedicated countless hours of volunteer
time and giving it back for free and
then canonical has said ok let's let's
get all these wonderful pieces let's
gather them up and create what's called
a boon to let's release this for free
right and give that back to the
community
let's take okay now the Linux Mint shows
up and Zorin OS shows up and they get
their arms around it and they say ok I'm
gonna I'm gonna make it a little better
- I'm gonna give of myself and
contribute to this and create Linux Mint
and create Zorin OS 15 and I'm gonna
create these packages that are available
for free as well it's incredible it just
shows that the world is filled with like
wonderful people that are just there to
help others right and by helping others
you're really helping yourself as well
and just everybody's warm and fuzzy when
there's when there's a good spirit about
like nems Linux is really like I'm
trying to get that spirit in them's
Linux where community is coming together
and supporting this thing and its really
being built up based on that but really
what it comes down to is like I I don't
have the time to create this wonderful
OS right but if I were to accumulate all
of the technology that's been created by
all these wonderful volunteers and
create and package up and take my my
talents in order to create something
that now takes all these things puts
them together into a nice little package
that makes it easier for the novice user
of a Raspberry Pi to say hey I
use Titan on my Raspberry Pi now here
you go it's for you it's free it's that
here's my contribution you can put it on
your Raspberry Pi yeah right and that's
exactly what everything is I mean even
raspbian from the Raspberry Pi project
is based on Debian right and it all
comes back it's full circle it comes
back to the same kind of thing where you
know where did it start
Venus Torvalds I mean who knows where it
starts right it's all about this mindset
of giving back to community and I love
that and I love being a part of that
yeah as do I mm-hmm
so tonight we're gonna be looking at
some technologies that kind of embrace
that mindset right that embrace that
like I love giving back to community I
love taking things from other developers
who have contributed their free time
right putting it all together into a
package that makes sense for the the
average user and making it so that it's
available to that average user and and
can be can be utilized so we've got for
example the pine book from pine 64 which
we're going to be looking at tonight
which I'm really really excited about
we're gonna be getting into the box
right after the break and we're also
gonna be looking at some free software
coming up in just a couple of moments
time stick around we're gonna be getting
into this box over here which looks
plain-jane totally boring but in totally
boring sense but inside is the
culmination of years and years of
wonderful community support coming
together into a package that a company
has said hey we are also gonna take all
that stuff we're gonna put our arms
around it this is pine sixty-four saying
we're gonna embrace this and we're gonna
give it back that's what the pine book
represents stick around
[Music]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
Raik we're kind of hinting at kind of
open source and how open source has been
giving back to all different projects
and one of those projects comes from
pine sixty-four and I do want to be
really clear when we first dig into this
box okay the pine book because we're all
very very excited about what the pine
book yes but a $99 laptop well yeah that
too
right because where can you pick up a
laptop for 99 bucks that's 1080p and
ready to go out of the box Wow but the
key thing to remember here is that what
pine sixty-four has done is not created
the video production laptop of the next
generation they haven't taken the the
$1,300 a sous gaming laptop and crunched
it down into a $99 pine book no that's
not at all what they've done what
they've done is they've taken the a 64
platform so this single board computer
that we all know and love the a 64 from
pine 64 and made it into a form factor
that fits into a laptop and created a
laptop based on this this architecture
right they've taken open-source and
they've taken all of the like the
culmination of so much effort from
various people within the community and
created a notebook that will work within
that space so this is not your daily
driver for watching videos and and and
doing everything that you do on a laptop
typically it's not a gaming laptop it's
nothing like that what this is though is
the next generation if you will of the
thing like a single board computer it's
the next generation of like the things
you can do
with the single board absolutely but
it's taken it into a form factor of a
laptop right but it takes us into that
next level of single board computing
where they're pushing that envelope and
saying okay open source has come
together Linux has come together the
community has come together architecture
arm has come together and open source
has come together and said this is
possible we can do this for $99 it's not
something that's going to replace your
day-to-day computer it is however
something that for us developers us
Linux fans even we don't have to be
Linux gurus we can be Linux fans and say
this is excellent we've talked about it
on the show how Google Drive has
revolutionized our need for software
because we can actually use cloud
software we can use Google Docs right we
can use Google slides we talked about
this I'm pretty sure we covered this and
that can be done on something that is a
little less powerful than your super
powerful right gaming laptop right
exactly so can I get right over here
into the boxes yes and you can join me
over here we are all wireless so in the
packaging now this is the box just plain
Jane box okay and Sasha in the Box came
this five volt adapter right which has
the American plug so is that like
European no this is an American Canadian
okay so 110 120 volts so what was the
one behind it oh that's just a this is
like a universal so if you order this
for in somewhere else in the world
precisely different that's ND a
different thing all right yeah and that
makes sense right so this is five oh
it's only 0.5 amps but it's 5 volts no
that's the input the output is 3 amps so
3,000 milliamps so there's pretty good
amount of power coming in for that but
it is 5 volts which is interesting now
are you ready to give me the box
yes so ladies and gentlemen the
culmination of open source up until 2019
are you ready
to get into the box within the box not
less boring oh there is another litter
Li it's like the Russian dolls heard
nesting what the heck
we seriously Sasha have that's a better
looking box oh yeah this has not been
quite as abused by the delivery system
can I get into this one yes okay oh this
one is locked if you have the key BAM
that looks a little no this is good we
even lost focus there which just shows
you that this is good we've got some
phone look at this Wow all right what do
we got oh I see stickers guys we're
talking about stickers you're getting no
these are mine yeah Pyne 64 look at that
we got two different size pine
sixty-four stickers that they have
thrown in and we've also now on this
side you can't see but they are white so
the same logo but in white so this would
work really well on my on my darker
laptop here that's cool okay so I do
have a letter from I'm assuming TL
personally sent this to me
dear Piner this batch of 11.6 inch pine
books features a 1920 by 1080 IPS panel
which is an upgrade to the previous 1368
by 768 display found in earlier
iterations we hope that you find this as
a pleasant surprise well I do smiley
face a smiley face let's jump over here
onto the camera so Sasha if you move
over here we'll just jump over and I'll
read you the the entire letter in its
entirety okay so this said due to the
upgrade in in the resolution open-source
developers in particular inner sole I
snowy IU fan shade Slayer and Bush ah
they required extra time to build their
respective operating systems so that the
higher resolution could be supportive
supported and this resulted in the
delivery date being pushed back a couple
of weeks now we felt this here in Canada
now we broadcast from Canada and this
took more than a couple of weeks to get
here because we'll the border stopped it
right and they said what did they say
okay you guess I'm going to I think I
know what is it I think that they would
not believe at all that a laptop could
be $99 yes this can't be true
this can't be ninety-nine bucks that's
what the border police said so they
stopped it and T all had to put his foot
down and say look with all in this thing
for $4.99 no no and that finally let it
through so here we are a thousand weeks
later please note that due to the 1080p
IPS panel some existing pine book OSS
may not work until supported by the
higher resolution for the until support
for the higher resolution has been added
to the operating system to reflect this
the pine 64 pine book wiki site and pine
64 installer utility have been split
into two separate categories for the
pine book and 1080 P pine book Oh so
keep that in in mind if you have an
older iteration right it's called pine
book and now it's called 1080 P pine
book so that's the 2019 model okay so
please use and install the OS images
from the 1080p pine book section we're
not going to do that tonight I'm gonna
see what's actually like pre-installed
on there right maybe hopefully there's
something that will at least get us up
and running the plastic enclosure goes
on that comes with your pine book is a
part of the packing material it's normal
for that break or get damaged during
shipment please note that this is not
considered a damage to the pine book
since the enclosure itself is part of
the packaging material and designed to
handle and absorb impact that sounds
like something that a manufacturer would
say like maybe Samsung saying do not
peel
the screen don't worry if the shell is
broken now in this case it looks like
they have double packaged it in
cardboard
first things first Sasha this is if this
is it this is it oh wow this is a lot
smaller than I was expecting
but then I thought I shouldn't say
expecting because I have very little
expectations that's it that's all that's
in the box so very well packaged albeit
pretty pretty bland well yes yeah
not very flashy we're not paying extra
for flashy packaging right here we go so
this is a lot smaller then I was
expecting a ladies and gentlemen okay
let's see there's a paper here yeah okay
an eight-and-a-half by 11 sheet of paper
so it is it's about identical it's all
it's a little bit narrower but so the
paper is a little bit bigger then the
pine book right so this is just a 1080p
pine book and let's actually feel I'm
not afraid of you dropping it because it
is solid state it has emmc 16 gigabytes
it has four gigs of RAM I presume
possibly two I'm gonna get into the
specs a moment but how does it feel it
feels nice I mean it feels it's not
heavy but it's small its correction it
is two gigabytes of RAM okay okay so
let's let's get a look here so on this
side I've got a micro SD slot which is
bootable so I can install operating
systems on that and boot from them then
I've got a headphone / microphone jack
multi function then I've got USB 2 which
is a full-size USP USB jack which is
quite nice over on this side I've also
got another USB 2 jack and a barrel
connector DC 5 volts which is our
connection for the charger itself again
5 volts 10,000 milliamp hours so we're
presumably going to get a fair bit of
life out of that
and what I had expected would be the
HDMI port is covered by a piece of
electrical tape let's find out what
that's all right you know and ladies and
gentlemen don't you just want to just
look at that that's nice just stare at
that and it does have that yes and it
has that look of like a lightweight like
portable right almost a MacBook Air kind
of esque feeling to it the bezel is
quite I mean first glance is I mean this
is our first impression to folks so my
first impression is wow that looks it
looks pretty nice yeah I'm curious about
this here this is it like a piece of is
that a white electrical tape Oh missing
phone users dead yeah oh yeah this looks
like something that I should peel off
let's see what okay so that is literally
just a cover for a micro HDMI so there's
an HD why do we have this piece of tape
over top we will never know but it's
gone now folks and we will test this
over the coming weeks to see if the HDMI
works as we would expect yeah I sure
will but first I see there's a yeah
there's a little bit's tape over top of
the 0.3 megapixel webcam which is a very
low resolution camera but ideal for
something like discord chat or something
like that if you're chatting on skype
with the family it's perfectly usable
it's not HD like for interviews or video
production or anything like that but
certainly great for just chat and lo oh
yeah right looking at the keyboard so
first things that I notice here on the
keyboard session I'm just gonna move
this aside so looking at the keyboard I
mean I'm in an El Nino type ER and I
type 180 words a minute and this drives
me nuts first of all this is where the
shift should be oh that's that should be
the shift so shift here has a pipe and a
slash over here check this out the arrow
keys are part of my right shift key and
the shift key is in fact this little
microscopic thing now I do want to
reiterate the what we're looking at here
is a $99 armed pine buck right so I do
want to be clear that what we're looking
at is something that is dirt cheap and
revolutionary as far as what is
currently available on the market this
is not changing things that looks like
maybe a right-click and then we've got a
function what I feel like this is like
points insert bullet points here we have
a lot of function keys so this is like a
numpad so if I hold in the function keys
presumably this becomes a numpad and the
slash where is this can I just say oh my
gosh no okay so if you can you hit you
hit this come on all right
don't mess with slash I'm just saying
that is bloody nonsense
I found it though it's but you found it
it looks like it requires a function key
press in order to press it let's go back
to okay so I I need to remind myself
what this is I want to I want to use
this I want to utilize this pine book
for programming because there's a
programmer this is going to be ideal but
this kind of thing this is this drives
me nuts
so the slash is actually function
/ well and where the / should be is a
what is that closing brace okay you guys
see that so the keyboard I do not I mean
I immediately hate it from here
well you don't love it okay you know
when when you when you screw around with
slash like that because slash is
something that you use very regularly
yeah or pipe for example like having a
press function pipe that's not that's
not cool do you think that there's a
reason they did that though
anybody who knows one comment below so I
I think that the keyboard aside okay so
I'm not keen on this we do have USB yeah
so I imagine I could use an external USB
keyboard if I needed to if I really
wanted to now for general typing if I
were to get used to the fact that some
of the keys are absolutely in the wrong
place and that I do not like the fact
that slash is here and on a function key
so I have to actually push function
slash that's not cool and where I think
is slash is a closing brace that's not
cool but that said okay I hope the Yeti
wizard said you could fix it by using a
custom keyboard layout see now we're
getting back into what are we getting
back into here Oh open-source
configurability yes so could I close my
eyes and forget about the the icons that
are printed on the buttons and actually
pre and reprogram the keys to work the
way I actually expect them to I don't
even mean this is not me being picky and
being like oh I really want this slash
to be there no I type 180 words a minute
I'm not screwing around I'm not holding
pushing a new key exactly yeah so you
could probably just wipe their
expectations right off the board and
download a new one and bingo bango this
was not my idea
thank you yeah there you go I think a
remap is
definitely an order and that may be a
coming feature on category five so out
of the box so my first impressions and
sasshi you can share yours as well but
my first impressions are this looks
wonderful yes sorry for the focus their
camera guy is not paying attention
because camera guy is digital it looks
really really good and it is light it
feels like something I can just throw in
my bag right it's solid state there's no
moving parts yeah you want to put a pine
64 logo on there yeah I think it's
possible
okay and that brings up an interesting a
comment that I would share Sasha is that
what do you notice that it's plane not
plane but not branded it doesn't feel
like the stupid Apple logo right like
the stupid like I've got my Lenovo over
here with a stupid Lenovo low well it
just looks like hey this is my netbook
this is my notebook just very it's
subtle yes it's it it says hey look I'm
a pine book but it's not presumptuous
yeah specifications wise I mean this has
stereo speakers which we're gonna get
into we're gonna see if they are as bad
as some folks have said but I mean
that's not really what we're looking at
being that this is the programmers the
tinkerers notebook it does have an arm
64-bit processor we're gonna look at
that in a couple of moments time and and
two gigabytes of memory but we do have
to take a really quick break when we
come back that's what we're gonna
actually fire this thing up yeah we're
gonna see what comes on it because this
is the first time we've ever been in the
box right we don't know what's gonna
happen as soon as we push go
like wait a few moments we're loading
things whenever I'll change who knows it
could be well so if you want to find out
what a new pine book is gonna look like
out of the box fired up for the first
time well you want to stick around and
see with us what our first impressions
are and in addition to that we're gonna
look at some of the specifications as
well and find out just how great this
thing is for 99 bucks
stick around welcome back to category
five technology TV during the break we
are looking at your laptop which is
right can I turn it around see it really
but mine also fails the Robie tech well
we are in Canada and your laptop is in
fact a French keyboard so Enter key is
in the wrong spot the slash keys in the
wrong spot but at least accessible but
yeah explains it oh my goodness but it
does drive me nuts as somebody who has
been typing like when I look at laptops
and when I buy laptops I specifically
look at the keyboard so that's very very
important to me because I just typed too
fast and when I move from computer to
computer I don't I don't want to have to
think okay I'm on this computer now so
the keys are here right I need to
everything needs to be the same from
system to system that's very very
important when you type as fast as I do
so you sort of remind me sorry did you
ever watch Big Bang Theory I try Oh so
Sheldon who that is I do yeah he's like
a spot on the couch it's his spot and he
really loves that one spot and it's like
a big deal I don't really watch the show
but I feel like you are like that with
my eccentric like him with the keyboard
situation you're like this is my layout
and I like mine but it makes sense I'm
married makes sense
okay can I just show you just with the
pine book here now I mentioned that it's
a little bit smaller than I was
expecting and I say that with almost a
pleasant surprise
like it's like wow and the pictures I
thought it was bigger right right so if
I look at my Lenovo ThinkPad here and
then put this next to it can you see the
difference like this is the difference
folks so this is not a big ThinkPad this
is just a standard sized ThinkPad and I
imagine you can see kind of the
difference there but it is quite small
right it's very lightweight and and I'm
kind of happy about that as far as
backpack yeah if I'm gonna be writing or
coding if I want to sit at Starbucks
with the free Wi-Fi and just sit there
coding something brilliant right one of
the things I've also gotten into lately
is using Google remote desktop so dude
this is the chrome remote desktop in
order to access my video production
system so using that I can use a less
powerful system in order to do things
like video editing because I'm actually
remoting into a more powerful system
utilizing the resources of that more
powerful system and on something much
lighter weight much more portable much
cheaper much more disposable if you will
I don't like to use the word disposable
but disposable in the sense that hey if
somebody stole this from me and I was
using it like that you're not losing
your video editing it's all on my more
powerful system that I access remotely
through this Wi-Fi smart it makes sense
right so can we fire this up can we jump
over here Sasha and you can join me and
let's actually see how this thing how
this looks as we as we power this on for
the very first time so there's a power
button right here which I presume I'm
gonna just push and let's see let's make
it lights have come on yeah
I do see light do we see anything on the
screen
there's our cursor thermal noise target
okay dan what nothing what's next that's
it
that's all there is come on come on
look now there's a tiny dot is there no
is there no yeah you were seeing thing
no see there we go whatever that is this
is our first time into folks so now okay
I'm gonna grab my notes here Saturday
and and just so I can share a little bit
of the specification so what we're
looking at now the the screen is 11.6
inch and as you know from our note that
we had this has been upgraded to 1080p
the processor is an a53 64-bit processor
the same as the a 64 single board
computer as we've shown here today and
it looks like it's booted up and ready
to go well I haven't connected it to the
internet yet so that's Firefox trying to
load up a Firefox browser but I haven't
connected it to the Wi-Fi yet so as we
shown it's very lightweight very compact
and portable now it comes with some form
of KDE Linux installed pre-installed but
it is compatible with many different
Linux distributions including B as well
as I should say BSD Android as well like
you can imagine you can install Android
on here on this pine book that's
fantastic the GPU is a Mallee 400 MP -
and it does have two gigabytes of LD LP
ddr3 RAM now let's get a quick look at
kind of how things work here now there's
no touchscreen so you know for 99 bucks
you're not going to expect something
like that you can see as I'm touching it
it's a little bit it's pretty solid like
it's right it'll hold up oh yeah
okay once it's there okay so let's get
in here I'm gonna use my finger here on
the nice little you know the trackpad
here which is multi-touch okay so let's
close out it doesn't seem to support
clicking how do you well I can actually
push down on the button that doesn't
support like touch sense stuff all right
let's get in to my Wi-Fi so down here
let's see okay it did take that click
there we go so we see some Wi-Fi network
so we do have 2.4 gigahertz Wi-Fi out of
the box it also has bluetooth 4.0 as I
mentioned 16 gigabytes of emmc is built
in and is also upgradable and you can
boot from a microSD card so if you want
to stick like 128 gig Kingston SS SD in
there that would be a good way to go and
you'll be able to boot from that put on
any operating system I'm just going to
get us on to Wi-Fi here so let's just
jump right on to our private network
here that's gonna take some getting used
to I can't just tap right the touchpad
that may be operating system centric it
may not be the the system itself pardon
me oh say the backspace keys in the
wrong spot ok let's try again I hope
there's not a lot of slashes in our
password our password is giant and
setting network address if I got the
password right it should be yeah got the
address connected ok so we're on now the
backspace key first thing I notice is
it's the wrong it's in the wrong spot so
that's not cool but that's the keyboard
I mean you may get used to that I'm not
keen on having to get used to that
because I am such a typer but if you're
if you're not
opposed to that then I guess that's okay
that it's gonna take some getting used
to that I can't just tap to click
somehow it's not doing anything
so I'm tapping like I would normally tap
my touchpad and it's not taking the
touch however there are like push down
buttons so if I push it clicks but it
doesn't seem to sense when I just tapped
the the touchpad so there goes ok so
there's a handful of things already kind
of pre right like here let's get into
category five dot T V that cool at least
the enter key is in the right spot
secure connection failed well why is
that that would presumably mean that the
date is wrong on the pine book so let's
take a quick Boo is the keyboard backlit
Yeti wizard ass no no there's no
lighting on the keyboard itself it is
just a I mean it feels good but you will
have to get used to the fact that the
keys are in sometimes the wrong place it
says it's December now what's the date
today Saturday is the 5th of June 5th of
June 2019 and this says it is December
somethin's how do I get into all right
say it's a date from right-click adjust
date and time yeah this so the data is
wrong that's why I'm getting secure
connection failed yes it's not letting
me on to my website it says that the
date is December 8th 2018 ok so keep
that in mind if you get that error
message that secure connection is not
available it's it's just that your clock
is wrong and that's because this is
brand-new right out of the box right
nobody's ever set the clock before sorry
June
fifth fifth 2019
yes 1951 1951 that's the time Oh
not to here okay we're done
okay so 19 1951 so we're looking at 750
51 so how do I set the clock on this it
doesn't seem to like you to now I'm
gonna apply the date at least time zone
what does it say time zone thing where
you just get the date and time for the
internet multi-touch is working yes I
presume so so much is working so if I
put my two fingers down and I know this
is a little difficult for you to see at
home but if I put my two fingers down I
am able to scroll so I'm able to scroll
this list with two fingers that's good
so that is a bit of a bonus because
sometimes that's not really working out
of the box let's see if I can find
Toronto with a quick search oh my
goodness having the backspace in the
wrong spot is gonna drive me nuts I just
said to rhabdo Toronto there it is oh
and I got a click I actually have to
push down with a tactile button okay try
again now does it come out
hello come on try again yeah it says
it's 123 am 123 am Sasha why did it
divert it reverted to December how do
you save your changes yes exactly
okay let's go to June 5th 2019 apply
does it doesn't know no it just jumped
as soon as I hit apply it jumped to
December April May June 5th okay
did that work
bringing back up the calendar it keeps
jumping back to December 2018 Sasha
so that's nonsense so if I instead let's
try going to bald nerd dot-com and is it
gonna let me there yes okay so if I go
bald nerd calm slash now I have to find
the slash key here Sasha press shifter
function nerd gasm z' and you all
remember why it uses ntp dates yes
Cecily but I'm saying it's not even
setting oh when I set it using the GUI
so I'm gonna click on in my nerdgasm so
bald near dot-com slash orgasms click on
set time and date you guys see that you
probably have trouble reading that do
you want to read it to them secure
connection failed because the time and
date are incorrect so this is a problem
that we are you know that we run into on
single board computers traditionally
right so keep in mind that this is in
all essences a single board computer
right think about a Raspberry Pi or some
single board computer and stick it into
a laptop form factor right that's what
the pine book is Marsh man knows it
knows how to set the date at the time
and date does he know he does he go to
it it says push the buttons hashtag time
date control set time and then you do it
like that okay so I'm gonna fade to
black and when we come back the date and
time are gonna be magically set back
from the black
now Marsh man shared in the chat room
that we needed to type a command in the
route terminal which is time/date CTL
set - time and then apostrophe 2019 - oh
six - oh five space 19 : 57 for 757 p.m.
and then another ' now the apostrophe
drove me nuts because the apostrophe is
in fact function key - that's how you
find the apostrophe key and it reported
to me that it could not do that it said
failed to set time automatic time
synchronization is enabled so I actually
brought up the calendar again as if I
was going to adjust the date and time
and there's a little checkbox that
allows me to disable it says set date
and time automatically which I turned
off and then I ran that command with the
up arrow and it did in fact work and so
presumably if I jump back over here now
oh yes I have to actually push down and
try again date and time are now correct
so if we're lucky if things work there
we go our website in fact loads ladies
and gentlemen so let's bring this up
make that a little bigger oh yeah I'm
gonna have to get used to that and I
have to actually physically push down so
scrolling down so this is the pine book
out-of-the-box experience a little bit
of configuration to set it up and get up
and going but all in all I mean it is an
operational laptop and truth be told I
understand that this is not my daily
driver this is my hey I want to actually
code on this thing so I want to have
access to Bosch I want to have access to
Nano I want to have access to maybe G at
it and things like that so you know all
this internet stuff and whether YouTube
plays well which I am interested in but
oh there we go
it looks like it's playing actually
pretty well on on YouTube where's my
cursor there it is let's bring that up
fullscreen
there we go okay fullscreen it's choppy
can you guys hear that so if you plugged
in a head it's like a headphone I said
headphones it was sound better oh yeah
and you know what these days Sasha how
interesting that okay so I'm looking at
the volume and the volume is in fact up
full blast on everything and it's not
very loud so not not a good sound system
it'll wake anybody up in the night not
really a reasonable sound stuff for
video editing or viewing or anything
like that however it does look like the
framerate win in Windows and I say
Windows went in why is it there we go
okay so that's pods
oh no it's unpossible there it's paused
this sound quality is not very good
built from the built-in speakers however
as you're saying Sasha you're gonna use
headphones yes there is a headphone jack
so unlike a iPhone right there's a
headphone jack
but there's Bluetooth 4.0 as well so I
don't know about you but I've really
taken to only using bluetooth headphones
these days and so it's gonna work fairly
well for that type of purpose right so
if I am wearing my headphones it's gonna
work pretty well often would you be
really relying on the speakers anyway
except for like a ding yeah okay well
let me explain to you what I'm gonna
what for me what a pine book would mean
to me yes so it's an ARM architecture
yeah I program
ARM based distributions so to me I'm
going to be in bash I'm gonna be editing
things in Nano and I'm probably gonna
have an mp3 playing in the background
for music on my headphones right so that
I do have music but it's coming from
like bluetooth well it's not coming out
of the speaker
I don't care about the desktop and in
fact I would be just as happy with this
as long as it has Wi-Fi and
accessibility to SSH that I could
actually just have a terminal fullscreen
I'd be quite happy with that for what it
is but for $99 I mean this looks like
and feels like a really good device so
looking at the keyboard so people will
say well you seem pretty ticked off
about the keyboard yeah yeah I really
kind of am I do not like when keys are
not where they're supposed to be it's
okay if they're you know like your
keyboard is French it makes sense maybe
this is something going on I don't know
who puts a slash key on a function Alt
key I don't know I don't I don't know
maybe but that's not a that's not a
slight again spine 64 right I want to be
it's really a fine line here because I
want to be I want to be clear that this
is a really impressive rig for 99 bucks
it is amazing yeah yes but but I want to
be clear about what it's not as well yes
right what it is is perfect for me
sitting in bash doing some programming
doing a little bit of things online
maybe like accessing my email and things
like that
it's lightweight the battery is a 5 volt
10,000 milliamp hour battery so I expect
that the battery life is gonna be really
quite reasonable and so far tonight
we've seen no signs of any kind of wear
on the battery I don't know if it says
what kind of battery life what I see in
the bottom icons okay it says there's 97
percent battery but it doesn't say it
says it's discharging it doesn't say how
long oh it's gonna last for do you know
an hour when I see the display
brightness I noticed that Linus had
mentioned that there was a no display
brightness option out of the box but I
do see a display brightness when I
clicked on the battery icon does that oh
oh it does brighten it
that's where that's where she be that's
where it is and it doesn't say for ya
load of difference it doesn't say how
long it does say that it's a 97% right
but that's it okay so but that's I mean
hey we've had it up and running for a
good half hour anyways and just running
away there you go
but it's lightweight it's a solid state
there's no moving parts so I'm not
afraid to you know be a little bit rough
and tumble with it to some degree right
and I closed it on purpose while it was
on because I'm curious as to what
happened what happens when I open it up
again just put itself to sleep or does
it turn itself right off well I see a
mouse cursor here okay I just came back
and it's sitting at a it's got a clock
and it's asking for a password I didn't
ever enter a password unlocking failed
so there must be a password that comes
with it that we're gonna have to find
out of the box but you can of course
visit the pine 64 website pine 64 org in
order to get other distributions for it
you don't you're not limited to just
what's included on the pine book but you
can install various other operating
systems as well
tons of open-source platforms that are
available for it and lots of people
working on making and this working
really really well but for what it is
hey for 99 bucks you could give it to me
easily to play on you know I yeah I kind
of feel that way like I feel like as a
programmer this is a really nice thing
to just kind of carry around with me
yeah but yeah for the kids for accessing
discord and various like online stuff a
lot of games are on like Chrome so
install Chrome on it and there you go
there's your I mean it's not even a
Chromebook this is a full Linux laptop
that is great for 99 bucks and you know
there you go you see how sleek that is
sweet that's the pine buck from pine 64
dot org and of course I'll give you a
hot link a cat5 dot TV slash
hein buck we've got to jump over to the
newsroom Sasha a feeling ready for me
let's do this here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom researchers at security firm in
tessarin ants piece of linux malware
that is escape detection by antivirus
products and appears to be actively used
in targeted attacks
effective immediately flying drones in
Canada without a license could mean
fines of one thousand dollars for
recreational users and five thousand
dollars for commercial users the
australian national university has
fallen victim to a fresh breach in which
intruders gained access to significant
amounts of data stretching back 19 years
and look at Robocop is already starting
to think scammers who use dating sites
to trick people into handing over cash
are being spotted using artificial
intelligence these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 dot TV newsroom
covering the week's top text
Linux bias I'm Sasha Rickman in here the
top stories were following this week
researchers at security firm and Tesser
say that they've discovered an advanced
piece of in linux malware that is escape
detection by antivirus products and
appears to be actively used in targeted
attacks hidden wasp as the malware has
been dubbed is a fully developed suite
of malware that includes a Trojan
rootkit and initial deployment script at
the time and Tesoro sweat live the virus
total malware malware service indicated
hidden wasp wasn't detected on any of
the 59 antivirus engines it tracks
although some have begun have now begun
to flag it timestamps in one of the 10
files and Tesser analyzed indicated it
was created last month some of the
evidence analyzed including codes
showing that the computers it infects
are already compromised by the same
attackers indicated that hidden wasp is
likely a later stage of malware that
gets served to targets of interest who
have already been infected by an earlier
stage it's not clear how many computers
have been infected or how any earlier
related stages get installed with the
ability to download and execute code up
blue upload files and perform a variety
of other commands the purpose of the
malware appears to be to remotely
control the computers and in facts
that's different from most linux malware
which exists to perform denial of
service attacks or mine cryptocurrency
one of the files uploaded a virus total
a bash script that appears to have been
used for testing purposes led and hazard
researchers to a different file the new
file included the username and password
for accounts that appear to have already
been added to give attackers persistent
access this evidence LED entire to
believe the malware gets installed on
machines that attackers have already
compromised
it's common for advanced malware to come
in two or more stages in an attempt to
keep infections from being detected and
to prevent unintended damage both a clam
AV and ESET nod32 antivirus
for Linux are able to detect the malware
interesting so I was just under this
idea that malware just doesn't exist
through Linux epic it's perfect we do
kind of have that almost complacency
yeah and that comes from the fact that
most Linux users are not running as root
or to put it into Windows terms
administrator right right so if you got
a malware infection it's probably going
to only impact the user that you're
currently running as and so therefore
malware developers have not really
focused on Linux because of the fact
that they can only gain access as that
user right but that said we now live in
a world where a lot of Linux servers are
online and have shared user access and
some of those shared users have access
to shared resources so you get a
wordpress site for example who's who's
using a caching software that they're
able to compromise through an SQL
injection through an SQL injection and
can then download this malware and that
malware can then become part of that
system and in that user space so it may
not gain root level access administrator
access but it has access to the the user
level so then you get the situation
where okay you've got malware that can
propagate into websites and file systems
and and other files within a system and
you may not even know that it's
happening right well I mean if antivirus
isn't seeing it then how really would
you know right and because it's
multi-tiered yes so you think about this
anything well why would they have it
sent out in stages so if I gave you
something that here's a virus that will
say we'll call it a virus but really now
we're yeah so here's a piece of malware
take this from me okay and you think
that that's pretty benign but then this
grows into this
right so now this is this thing okay and
then your mouth anti-malware comes along
or antivirus for lack of a modern term
your antivirus says oh that's a malware
so let's destroy that get rid of it
right now because it's multi-tiered
multi it still lives over there it's
still over here
this is the piece that's actually active
in doing something the red hair that is
the decoy yeah but it's also the
deployment mechanism right so now we've
got something over here that's running
that the mount anti-malware can't detect
because it's actually a caused by that
thing that it can detect right right so
now this thing's running this thing's
doing all kinds of things to your system
and you don't even know that it's
happening because the anti-malware
already got rid of phase one and didn't
even know about phase two so that's kind
of the scenario where hey it's detected
they've figured out something that is a
result of something else now is it
typical that some antivirus companies
may not be able to find or see something
in a scan until after like because this
seems kind of new right so now they know
about it everybody will be able to
detect it right everybody's jumping on
that yeah right and anything like it is
that the way it works is it yeah eristic
do play into it so eristic being a
mechanism to read the how would you say
to read the intentions of a program okay
so to understand so eristic s-- look at
a program and figure out what does this
program do and if this program does
something that's not where's a call yeah
or somehow possibly malicious then maybe
we need to flag that and so then
heuristic says let's send that to our
detection Center and then the detection
Center is when real people get involved
and they say so free set this is
Slovakia's office or quebec Sophos and
says okay we're going to look into the
code that it is now sent us and we're
gonna investigate this and see what it's
actually doing and figure out if it's
benign or if it is in fact malicious and
this is where Kaspersky got into trouble
because Kaspersky software was running
in government offices in the United
States and they grabbed hold of NSA
software that was being used by the NSA
in order to infiltrate citizens
computers so of course the NSA says well
that's us where the government and we
have every right mm the anti-malware
says this is malware yeah so then all of
a sudden the government of America says
Kaspersky is out of the store shelves
right you know what I mean like so so
you got to see the the big picture and
and that's exactly what happens in these
kinds of cases
but it's interesting and I don't know
whether am I alone in my feeling like
duty to do Linux is untouchable you know
I just automatically assumed Linux is
very much touchable yes especially in a
world that we live in where social
engineering is a big concern because
whether you're on Windows Linux Mac it
doesn't matter if you are tricked into
thinking that that email is legitimate
and I need to follow that link and enter
my password all of a sudden that's the
human component no amount of antivirus
can protect you from that so you know
there are anti-phishing programs that
will protect you against those types of
infiltrations but who stops the phone
calls who stops those infiltrations or
the malicious adware right and when I
say adware I mean like going on to a
website and an advertisement pops up
that seems legitimately to say your
computer is infected click here to
inoculate your you know whatever or the
email that says here's your password I
know your password and therefore send me
Bitcoin right I've hacked your computer
right
no you hacked Bell Canada back in 2016
and gained access to their entire
database of users and now you have all
of their usernames and passwords right
true story and so with that information
now with that data I can now take it to
Sasha and say ha ha your values err yeah
here's your password I've hacked your
computer I know your password and so it
convinces me social engineering it
tricks me into thinking oh yeah that is
my password I better give you money so I
had better they obviously have hacked my
computer right no they hacked bail right
and they will only need this money one
time yeah no it's all a trick folks yeah
along that vein
have I been owned is a great service
that will help you to determine in those
kinds of cases whether or not your email
account or other accounts have been
compromised on third-party sites and
this is exactly why we warn don't use
the same password on this site and that
site and this site if you use the same
password as your online banking and your
Twitter account on Joe schmo's forum and
then Joe schmo's forum gets hacked and
now the hackers have access to that
username and password
right what are they gonna do they're
going to try Twitter the bank yeah
they're gonna send you an email and say
I've got your password and I've hacked
your computer
send me Bitcoin right right and you're
gonna say oh that is my real password
they know my password obviously they
have legitimately hacked me use the same
password on multiple sites on multiple
services that's just common sense at
this point the only have to reiterate
the only way not to use the same
password on different sites is to have a
password manager because truly I mean
cuz we're not doing the password 1 2 3
password 1 2 3 4 right house where
Twitter one exact not doing that we need
to use a password manager for sure right
so do that
are you doing that I
60% of the way there in other words she
knows what she's supposed to do and
she's not doing this I am I'll do it
folks
you're almost there I'm almost there
she's not there she's not there
please don't hack me but if you get an
email that says here's your password
just know that it's probably not but I'm
just gonna call you yeah
fines of $1,000 for recreational users
and $5,000 for commercial users there
are two type different two different
types of licenses now offered by
Transport Canada basic and advanced the
basic category is meant for people who
never fly in controlled airspace or
within 30 meters horizontally of
bystanders the basic category requires
passing a $10 online exam registering
with Transport Canada marking the drone
with its registration number and
carrying the pilot certificate whenever
the drone is in use the advanced
category requires all of the above plus
an in-person flight review and special
permission from air traffic controllers
whenever flying in controlled airspace
users must be 14 years of age or older
to take the basic exam and they must be
16 years of age or older to take the
advanced exam drones that weigh under
250 grams are exempt from licensing and
those that weigh more than 25 kilograms
have their own set of rules Transport
Canada also reminds pilots that drones
need to be flown where the pilot can see
them at all times
below 122 meters at least 5.6 kilometers
away from airports and no less than one
point nine kilometers up from heliports
okay so that's all kind of comments a
common sensical in that I think to
myself if you're flying a drone you have
to be responsible for it right like you
just because there are people out there
just not doing the safe practices right
so you're just trying it makes sense to
me and I think it kind of alludes to the
fact that we as we want to fly drones
mmm-hmm need to start with the toy
drones yes so if you if you have that
desire and it's a lot of fun it's a lot
of fun to fly drones mm-hmm and we're
using that just so you know we're used
no term drones but that covers and we're
talking about benign quadcopter
helicopters those kinds of toys and
consumer can commercial devices we're
not talking about mechanisms of war or
anything like that now we're talking
about things that we would fly in our
local park for fun yeah so that that in
mind if you are feeling that inkling to
want to fly a quadcopter a drone then
start with something that is under 250
grams so that makes sense I mean that's
a toy that's on a lot of levels because
if you're new at flying one you probably
don't want to crash an expensive one
that's that's true too in and of itself
and it is tricky to fly and and you have
to you have to be able to get it your
head around the spatial nests of flying
a quadcopter right I mean when I first
was starting to fly it was difficult to
learn the fact that because I'm used to
remote-control cars right and
remote-control cars you can always see
the direction that it is traveling a
drone you cannot always see the
direction that is traveling it can
sometimes be very disorienting because
up might be down left might be right it
depends on which way it's oriented it
depends on what mode you're flying in
whether you're flying in headless mode
or not and whether you're flying with a
GPS or not I mean there's so many
different variables so learn on
something that's under 250 grams it's a
toy right and we don't say that don't
think of a toy as a kid's thing it's not
the kids drone it's we've got to learn
how to fly safely before we're ready for
that next step right and then I think it
makes sense that people have to read
through a set of rules and maybe take
it's probably an easy task here in
Canada only ten dollars and that's not
so bad
my biggest drone is
is about one and a half kilograms and it
can hurt if it it can really hurt
I had it happen once where I I had a
hard landing and I didn't kill the
engines and I and I I screwed up I made
a mistake okay
and it was upside down and so I ran up
to it and it was upside down but what I
didn't realize is that the motors were
still intending to fly oh so when I
grabbed a hold of the landing gear I
think I grabbed it with one hand because
I had only I had the other hand on the
controller oh and I grabbed the landing
gear on the ground with one hand and I
picked up and this is a big like a think
of a phantom three or something like
that from DJI and and because it was in
flight flight mode it immediately
righted itself so when I picked it up it
went and started spinning at about a
million rpms and sliced my arm one of
the one of the propellers hit my arm and
sliced it so like that was a real
learning experience and I was like I
learned the hard way you do not grab a
drone that is presumably offline but is
not from upside down and just think that
you can pick it up right don't ya see
you know now had you taken a ten-dollar
course or a ten-dollar test Africa would
cover that maybe would be in a multiple
choice but I did realize that maybe I'm
not as proficient as I thought I might
be right I definitely realized that hey
I'm still a rookie I'm still learning by
mistake and that could have been worse I
mean it could have been one of my kids
run up and grab it it was me and I was
on my own and so you know that was good
but it give me a good Nick on the arm
yeah and I was bleeding and everything
you know so I'll never do it again and
so you know it's it's like okay let's
let's learn
on something that's a little safer
something that's a lot lighter weight
because when you get into that kind of
weight like one and a half kilograms and
it has power right it flipped itself
like I had no control over it when it
flipped itself over something that was a
toy I absolutely could have had control
over I could have just grabbed it and
picked it up and the the propellers
could have been spinning and I would
have been just like huh spinning you
know like I would have had the control
over something more like large and
powerful I I didn't have the control
over it so you know that's a bit of a
learning experience for me I've always
found it interesting I would love to use
a drone to you know examine like the
inside of some of the caves and some of
the hiking trails and stuff there right
but then at the same time I think to
myself well if a drone had a camera on
it wouldn't it be great to like go to an
outdoor concert and get closer but then
that's very close to people exactly
that's so dangerous and and I would I
would see all of the steps on how that
could end in disaster
but perhaps others wouldn't and now if
you have to have it registered then you
can trace it back to somebody who has
yes hurt someone with a drone at it well
and presumably by registering your drone
yeah so having a registration mark
labeled on the drone yeah if you did
lose it hopefully you'd be able to
recover it
I have almost lost my drone my big drone
once well and it actually kind of put me
off a flight it really kind of scared me
away from flight because sometimes they
can pick up signals from nearby
interference right and to have your
drone all of a sudden take off you know
that's it's scary that's $600 driver
flying away from you yeah your GPS is
wrong listen to me please
so you know hopefully maybe catching
your number into it would help you to be
able to recover one of those yeah at
least get you insurance on ITER's yeah
[Applause]
the Australian National University has
the top-ranked University said that it
noticed about two weeks ago that hackers
have accessed staff visitor and student
data including names addresses dates of
birth phone numbers personal email
addresses emergency contact details tax
file numbers payroll information bank
account details and passport details
it said the breach took place in late
2018 the same year it fest up to another
lengthy attack academic records were
also accessed university officials say
quote the systems at that store credit
card details travel information medical
records police checks workers
compensation vehicle registration
numbers and some performance records
have not been affected and quote the
news comes less than a year after the
school admitted its network has been hit
by a months-long attack at the time the
University said that it had been working
in partnership with Australian
government agencies for several months
to fend off the attack Vice Chancellor
Brian Schmidt admitted that if the
university had not made upgrades last
year in the wake of the early 2018
attacks this most recent breach would
have gone undetected
Schmidt describes the attacker as a
sophisticated operator and said the
university has no evidence that research
work has been affected mm-hmm so so what
makes me giggle about that it's like
there's just huge long list of the
things that have been compromised and
they retaliated by yes let me tell you
what hasn't been compromised oh but did
you know this hasn't been like that yet
yeah our logs of the janitorial service
has not been calm down musty it's safety
yeah thank you account information
however we live in a very interesting
time
a very dangerous time where we're still
we have a lot of people working in the
industry that are still based on the old
mindset a lot of people who still think
we do oh we don't need firewall we just
we just need antivirus know hello when
was the last time you heard of a virus
outbreak when it comes to computers
think about that for a second and then
you start to realize holy cow I natus
back in the 1990's that was huge boot
sector viruses huge but these days when
was the last time you heard of a real
outbreak of viruses so then you get into
the old mindset of thinking okay well we
only need antivirus we don't need
firewall and ransomware protection and
anti anti-malware anti data theft
we don't need enterprise inspector or
you know that end point and end point
detection and things like that yeah
these are not these are not new trends
Sasha writes these are not new things
that the anti-malware or the antivirus
companies have brought out to sell you
more product you know what I mean
like the whole end point inspector or
when you think about things like like
enterprise monitoring and being able to
monitor packets and things like that
it's not just a trend it's not just to
sell you more product this is because
attacks have become very sophisticated
right and they've become so that
antivirus won't detect it right I mean
we just learned that but like even Linux
is getting no malware and you know it's
yeah so things can go undetected you
need to be more secure if foo is even
bringing up Baltimore in our chat room
and we're not even gonna go there
yeah because Baltimore is an entire
situation of you have an IT
administrator who is warning you of
these threats like am I the person who's
warning you you have these threats right
now and you're and you're thinking like
oh I don't want to spend the money
falta more is that we go follow up on
the Baltimore situation at some point I
would really like to know where they are
right now
no wait six months and see if they've
learned their lesson yet okay all right
but then again it's like I kind of laugh
because it's like you know I could sell
you the right product but would you pay
your bills on time it's like there's so
much compounding issue there right oh
it's tricky but when it comes to malware
and and the whole old mindset you just
can't have that mindset anymore right
and prevention is much easier than
trying to clean up the mess after the
fact you're absolutely right I say
proactive prevention proactive in that
I've set up something to be able to
detect and thwart these types of
infiltrations right at the at the
endpoint
I'll be honest my website came under
attack today oh this very day it
happened and because of my proactive
measures I was alerted to this fact
before it became an issue I was able to
patch against the very thing that they
were trying to exploit and I'm talking
this is not a small attack and sometimes
this happens and and I need to be ready
for it and and and you need to be ready
for it too cuz it could happen to anyone
but for me so this was about 600
individual IP addresses 600 boy
individual computers attacking my
website all at once today and so I've
started
what did I do I monitored the packets I
started watching what are they trying to
do what is happening here it's not a
virus
these are scripts that are attacking
various aspects of my system right my
server they're trying to gain access to
my server essentially yeah they're
trying to install
locations that will allow them back-end
access so that they can have root level
access to my server and compromised
accounts and things like that well I'm
not going to have it so of course I'm
alerted to the fact that these things
are happening and immediately
counteracting their measures but if
you're not if you're Baltimore and
you're just sitting there not paying it
a completely complacent and to the point
of idiotic and I apologize to anyone who
is watching that is a involved in yeah
really I mean you know you absolutely
know like there have been some serious
mistakes there oh and when it comes to
cybersecurity like this is just it's not
a game anymore yeah now I'm sure that it
was like BOTS and stuff but it would
have been starts with BOTS right so
understand that yeah it starts with
oxide and then it develops into people
paying attention once they have access
bots are created by malicious parties in
order to find exploits once those
exploits are found those exploits are
either exploited not likely those
exploits are sold right okay if I'm an
attacker what am I in it for people say
well why do people attack money money
yeah so what are they gonna do so if I
find a Samba share at a government
office that is wide open because they're
stupid because they still have more like
because they still have eternal blue
unpatched on a server okay this is the
NSA exploit that has compromised
Baltimore and Baltimore has oh it makes
me angry Baltimore has accused the NSA
don't be stupid
this is an exploit that was revealed two
years well I'll be honest a year ago a
year ago it was it was absolutely
patched and fixed and
a year in a bit ago ESET had already
patched against eternal blue okay so if
you are still in 2019 susceptible to
eternal blue that you are doing
cybersecurity wrong yeah okay your fault
it is absolutely your fault
so yes the NSA had to do with eternal
blue yes the NSA was utilizing eternal
blue to compromise its citizens of the
United States of America but if you are
still unpatched in 2019 against that
threat that has been patched against for
over a year then you are doing something
wrong in cyber secure at ones on you
yeah so you can't you can't fall back on
that mm-hmm I feel bad for getting you
all riled up I'm sorry
I feel like Jeff right now I could get
riled up but the truth of the matter is
it's a serious concern and you see it
more than most so for you yeah like
you're very aware of how prevention can
save a million headaches and dollars
yeah proactive prevention exactly and
that's it proactive mmm-hmm and and it's
not even proactive anymore when it comes
to something like internal well yeah
that's that is ridiculous if you're just
figuring that oh now you're behind the
times if you have Windows XP anywhere
yeah you're doing cyber security wrong
okay okay remember that look at Robocop
is already starting to think scammers
who use dating sites to trick people
into handing over cash you're being
spotted using artificial intelligence a
neural network has analyzed profiles
messages and images from real dating
real dating data to get a better to get
better at spotting fakes it sampled age
gender and ethnicity as well as the
language people use to describe
themselves the results of the research
are slightly mind-blowing the AI system
proved accurate at spotting scammers and
fakes in a whopping 93 percent of cases
computer scientists in the UK US and
Australia collaborated on the AI based
system which found that those making
fake profiles were more likely to be men
60% and had an average age of 50 the
system was trained using almost 15,000
profiles from a free dating website the
computer science project used the data
from the service because it publicly
posts fake profiles when they're
discovered ultimately the team hopes to
create an early warning system that can
spot scammers as they set up accounts
and begin the process of contacting
victims the researchers said scams on
dating sites and apps were hard to
tackle because they were usually not
large campaigns and were not generated
automatically the researchers suggested
their methods could be harder to get
around than some of the current
approaches which rely on black lists and
other basic technical tricks to thwart
repeat offenders they added quote we aim
to more broadly examine the available
data online on online dating fraud
seeking information actionable for
enforcement and other countermeasures
and quote how interesting that they be
using AI for this type of this is a
great protection if you will yes
especially because we know like humans
are the weakest link as far as like
protection against things like that not
that we've learned that today and I
guess it's predictable when people are
setting up face fake path profiles but
maybe they don't realize how predictable
they're being true yeah but isn't it
interesting that they can use AI now
like AI is good enough at detecting
these types of threats that are threats
I say I'm still stuck on threats but
these types of malicious people that are
trying to compromise again it comes back
to social engineering because they're
tricking people on dating sites into
providing financial information it could
not be it maybe it's not even money
maybe it's just like accidental access
to their bank accounts things you think
it's stupid do you think that it doesn't
happen but it's like definitely
I'm on a dating site oh I see that you
like dogs
what's your dog's name yeah exactly
what's your dog's name senator oh yeah
oh okay first password hint on the
banking site yeah right yeah I mean it's
true story true story right those kinds
of things actually mean some people
aren't all nerville on dating sites but
people who are vulnerable are sometimes
on dating sites so it's good that
they're being given protection yeah
vulnerable I don't even know it like
vulnerable as in easily maybe just you
could you you want to just open up to
somebody what's your dog's name tell me
about your life you want to you know you
need to interact with me both guys are
going down there's an open our AI is
getting you and the AI is gonna stop
that nonsense presumably the dates are
gonna get a lot better folks stop
stealing your money's just another you
know cybersecurity threat there's
another one yeah that comes up tonight
but a fun news week suspend yeah but you
don't think of it as cybersecurity it is
though it's because social engineering
is and that's where it comes back to you
know I started talking about you know
antivirus versus anti-malware and it's
like well auntie phishing is a big deal
these days the protection against social
engineering attacks is something that is
very very important because users in a
network like if you've got a business
with a hundred people you don't have
time to make sure that everybody is
smart when it comes to social
engineering attacks to the person who
says what's your dog's name
yeah well I'm on a dating site and
somebody's asking me about my life and
that's interesting yeah and I want to
interact with this person and see if
they are also interesting what that
person actually would say instead of
what's your dog's name is like my dog's
name is this and then never ask you so
that you would like take the bait and
you're like oh yeah me and my dog she
went for a walk
what's your sign babe yeah exactly and
it's like okay your signs to be one of
your banking questionnaire yes I wanna
make sure we're not related what was
your mother's maiden name jump over to
coin gecko this is what the the crypto
currency market looked like as a
seventeen eighteen hundred hours on June
5th 2019 Bitcoin and well everything is
actually down Bitcoin has been like have
you ever been on one of those roller
coasters that's just like this yeah
volatile is the the word but it's more
like just zoop zoop zoop you may as well
just like draw a bunch of squiggly lines
because it's down another nine hundred
and six dollars u.s. this week this week
litecoin is down 103 no pardon me it's
down $13.30 u.s. to 103 48 etherium is
at two hundred and forty six dollars and
nine cents US and Manero is at 86
fourteen again everything's down torque
is at zero point seven seven ten
thousandths of a cent and our guy
turtle coin is trailing along behind the
rabbit at zero point nine nine ten
thousandths of a cent remember the
crypto currency market is always always
active and volatile and we're seeing
that it is very up and down so like I
mean this week it's down nine hundred
dollars on a Bitcoin right so if you buy
one will it jump up nine hundred dollars
next week like that's what we've been
seeing it's been a thousand dollars up a
thousand dollars down buying Bitcoin
you'd almost want to just get right in
on the trend and like the by themselves
and by themselves
exactly but don't every week yeah we're
not making financial advice
is jokingly saying that's what the
trends on it and just be watching and
somehow have the premonition to know
when the down is going to happen
basically you have to be an alien with
telekinesis and superpowers
exactly big thanks to Roy W national
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson thanks
for being here with us this week now we
do still have some show left so stick
around when we come back we're going to
be looking at a piece of software
perhaps retro gaming that is celebrating
how many years 35 years we're going to
show you how to get it up and running on
any Linux computer stick around
from Ameritrade comm they pointed this
out to us this week well this week is a
very special week for a particular retro
game Tetris turns 35 years old can you
believe it
happy birthday Tetris make me feel old I
remember when Tetris was new I remember
playing Tetris with my grandma yeah we
played it on the Nintendo Entertainment
System
those are great memories yes Tetris and
Othello and that's that's that's my
memory where did you first try Atris we
have we even buy Tetris like we have
Tetris on like a handheld it is just
Tetris
that's just like black boxes that fall
on a gray screen yeah retro all the way
tactics I can't remember the first time
I played it feel like it's been around
almost my whole life so yeah it pretty
much has yeah right cuz you're what 36
then yeah okay I know I know I was just
trying to win points yeah you won them
fantastic 35 years old is Tetris and
we're gonna install it on a Linux
machine in three seconds flat are you
ready for this folks this comes to us
from Ameritrade dot-coms Ameri
blog I'm gonna go sudo apt install
actually first I'm gonna go sudo apt
update we're gonna throw that in there
for us because first of all I want to
make sure that my app repositories are
up to date so with that now I'm gonna
type sudo once it's done I think how
many repositories do I bloody well have
cinelerra has about 3,000 of them oh my
goodness can you guys tell that I've
been trying to find a Linux video editor
that works
alright sudo apt install and the program
that I want is called tint now figure
that one out
it's called tint but it is Tetris Tetris
for the masses folks it's already
installed it's done and done and notice
I'm doing this through my terminal but
you can install you can run this on any
Linux server or as a marriage right
pointed out you can install this run
this on a single board computer
brilliantly and of course here I am on
my laptop which is running Linux Mint it
says choose your level to start oh is
one the lowest I can go okay on my
keyboard is gonna rotate so let's let's
throw that down there okay let's let's
see how yeah okay so here we are
celebrating 35 years of Tetris and it
looks like this is antique for sure this
is running in my Linux terminal I
absolutely love it thank you to a
married calm for pointing this one out
to us it's called tint and you can
install it from your apt repositories Go
Go Go Robby go yes and again this is
running in my terminal I can install
this on any server because absolutely
you need a boss key am i right folks I
wanted to go to the right and I pushed
down
I am so messed up now so that is endgame
right there
you guys thought that yes the Avengers
was endgame no this is endgame americ-aa
my mentioned them make sure you check
out their website check out a Mara blog
and incidentally check out their coupon
code you have it there somewhere but it
is the coupon code is T V supporter cat
5 T V supporter all one word and that
will prove that you support cat 5 T V
and in so doing you will in fact receive
a discount on check out of any single
board computer purchase at Ameritrade
dot-com thank you for everyone for
tuning in this week and for pitching in
through our various ways of being able
to support category 5 TV whether it's
through our Amazon links other partner
links at category 5 TV slash partners
whether you're setting whether you've
set up this week a patreon profile or
you've been doing that for some time
that's a great way to support us right
exactly might get a wrap out of the deal
that apparently is happening yeah you're
letting the cat out of the bank yeah
there are all kinds of perks like for
example Sasha and I are gonna have to we
are honorbound now - in fact produce a
music video of us rapping and that is
because our supporters have said that is
what they want and we absolutely have to
give the people what they want exactly
that's who we are and you only get that
stuff if you support us on patreon and
it's only $1 a month you can get more if
you like but that's all we ask and
that's a way to support category 5
technology TV it's a great thing that
we're that we're building here and you
know after twelve twelve years of doing
this it's continuing to grow yeah and so
we do call it a building process and
we're continuing to build it and
continuing to grow it and it's through
your support that we're able to do that
but that's all the time that we have for
this week I want to remind you to check
out category 5 on Twitter as well I'm
Robby Ferguson on Twitter you can follow
me I will follow you back we're
also on Facebook we're on YouTube as
category-five technology TV and you'll
also find us at linux tech show calm
which reroutes to our edited down
version of category 5 which is cool
the newsroom right is a little 24 minute
segment that you can just tune into once
a week and you don't have to watch all
of the blabbing around it all of the
stuff that I talk about like all the if
you just want also all the time all new
Linux tech show comm is where you want
to subscribe to
we're also on Plex and Kodi channels but
you have to get the channels installed
on your flex or Kodi which you can do
through our github github.com slash cap
5 TV and of course everything comes
together including RSS feeds and
everything else through our main website
category 5 dot TV we hope to see you
there make sure you interact with us on
discord as well because that's a lot of
fun do that it is fun yeah
thanks everybody have a great week Sasha
nice to see you nice to see you nice to
see you take care of buddy seeing
