welcome everybody this is category five
technology TV in its current state we're
gonna call this episode number 646 but
really it's just a couple of moments
where we get to spend time with some of
the Kickstarter supporters cat5 TV slash
kick if you want to find out more and
that would be a great way to support
category 5 technology TV is we get out
of this space and move into our new
space at Studio II so full disclosure we
had a great time we spent some time
doing this and we gave the whole kind of
we had a great meeting didn't we Sasha
and soon yeah and zoom didn't record so
here we are this is our opportunity to
just kind of let you guys in those who
are watching on demand on some of the
behind the scenes what's going on here
at the studio unfortunately we don't
have a recording of our first zoom
meeting from this evening and it you
know what though make note of that be a
part of zoom meetings as they happen and
you'll never lose out on the opportunity
to be part of that conversation I mean
we've got Marsh man here we've got bp9
here guys how was our first zoom meeting
[Laughter]
well here we are at studio D we've got
things kind of ripped apart we've got
everything taken apart and most of the
stuff is boxed I think we're doing
pretty well yeah I think you know what
Robby's really generous he says we are
doing really well really 99.9% of Studio
done am I good you done with this place
oh yeah yeah it's funny okay so this is
I wanted to show you now we're getting
sidetracked but this is kind of all the
stuff that is packed and ready to go
we're gonna move this into the truck and
get out of here we got some garbage we
got some boxes that were so
through Studio done it was devastating
yeah it was devastating to learn that we
had to leave this place but I think it
was a real kick in the pants to realize
that it's time to move on it's time to
grow the show and it's an opportunity
for us so now I come here and I'm like
now that it's torn apart I'm ready I'm
excited and and ready to move on to
what's next for category five technology
TV no can you quickly give us a
comparison of the amount of space that's
available from the point bp9 just saying
how we had to redo this because the
recording didn't work okay so look at
studio deep okay you can see me from a
couple a couple of angles here a few
angles is my good angle I don't know
there's cameras all around it's always
looking at my butt over here we've got
my production space okay so this is
where I used to produce the show then
we've got like our original studio D set
over here is where we are currently
shooting the show so this is what you're
familiar with that's the brick wall over
here hey Bo
and then this is where the cameras sit
so they look this way and this is our
our stand-up desk studio over there for
production and then we've got the sit
down area over here which we sometimes
use but not too often because it only
seats too lovely when we want to sit I
really like it yeah okay so so that's
here so this is about 490 square feet
almost exactly right here okay
beyond here we have our kind of kitchen
area which is like a fridge and coffee
maker microwave stuff that we feel like
we use the coffee maker a lot the fridge
like cream and stuff thanks for in the
coffee yeah
and then here we used to have and and I
say used to I've simply moved them out
into the hallway into the foyer audience
eating was here so we had ten audience
seats but how often do that so rarely
yeah yeah six like your satchel flip
your mic dad told me to do that because
your mouth is up here in your head we
used to have all the audience sitting
here but we don't really use it we don't
have audience here and we tried the
March Break special but now we can't
because of Coppa so it's like it's just
wasted space so consider this all wasted
space
kapa yeah it's like a regulation that
says that we can't do programming this
focus towards children under 13 years
old so because of that our March Break
special was moot so yeah so we can't do
that anymore
Oh older family friendly calling it now
where we used to be called family
friendly now we are safe for work
everybody is working from home just it
just we can't target young people
because then we can't monetize because I
really like to provide that
family-friendly focus but we just you
know we can't afford it so lose all this
space for audience seating because we
don't have an audience we never do so
when people come to the studio we make
them be guests like here's where were
you standing you were over here yeah
you're not
camera yeah my wife sitting well and
true when Vera was here she can sit here
but we don't need 10 seats for Dara
right so sitter so if we had so a co e
if we had just a couple of flies ville a
couple of fold-up chairs right that we
can just pull out when we need them so
consider that all this space is just
wasted okay
so throw this away we don't need a
bathroom because the new place has a
public bathroom so cut it off right here
and say okay yes the new space is
smaller 490 square feet versus the 690
that we have here but we don't need all
that space it's excessive that's what I
was always thinking so when the audience
seating was certainly unused so we ended
up just putting our stuff on it when we
got here right yeah that is true
odd shelves yeah so so essentially we're
gonna have the same amount of studio
space just not have audience seating
space and we don't have the same amount
of space for like our kitchen area but
we can just put that on it like we've
got a coffee maker and a fridge we can
just put that on a table yeah exactly
thanks bp9 Robert Koenig was also here
joining us for our first run through our
our zoom group meeting now I've got it
figured out and I know that I know how I
think to make it work we've got so many
cameras around and it ended up putting
it on my phone instead of on the
computer so it didn't record and so that
was a little bit disappointing but now
we've got it recording so any other
questions for me folks while we have
time before zoom cuts us off who wants
to us
can I explain he's been through the long
explanation look just know that it's
been a weird time for all of us and here
at studio D it's it's no exception
getting insurance has been odd for
studio II because my insurance broker
has shut down because of kovat 19 so
they're working from home they're doing
things like esign and and taking much
more time than it should take to get a
quote and so that's been really really
difficult for me it's been probably the
biggest stress that I've had beyond the
actual eviction just realizing that okay
we've I've paid our rent I've paid our
security deposit at the new location in
all essences it is ours however they
will not give me a key until I have
insurance so knowing all that and
realizing that okay there I mean from my
perspective it seems like they're
dragging their heels they're like I'm
just not getting a quote from my
insurance broker but realistically I
understand and I'm empathetic to the
fact that they're all trying to do their
jobs as well as anyone else through this
trying time but for me it's like my what
I have to do still goes on I still have
to be out of this space before the end
of March and in order to do that I have
to have access to my new space before
the end of March so finally I did
receive the quote today so I requested
the quote back on the first day of March
and here we are in the eighteenth and I
finally received the quote there's a
couple of things that need to be
adjusted I'm very confident that they're
going to be able to quickly fix those
and and I'll be able to e sign those so
we're we're at an interesting time now
where even though we're all going
through this really difficult situation
with kovat 19 where technology is
allowing us to do things like assigning
things and and they're able to fulfill
insurance policies from home even though
their brokerage is closed so it's been a
bit of a scary time that way because I
haven't known whether we're gonna have
insurance in time to be able to get out
of here before the landlord changes the
locks yes yes you can
easy sign for Studio II I don't know if
you can see me on Sasha's camera here
but we are social they are complying and
sadly that means I will not be able to
come up at the end of the month I hope
you guys I know that actually breaks my
heart I saw I saw a little memo in my
email that said that you'd cancel just
as I was on my way out the door to go to
work and I was like well this is a
situation I mean kovat 19 is a situation
that none of us anticipated and it all I
think it falls it'll I mean when can it
followed a good time right it really
falls at a really hard time for the show
for everything that's going on I'm I am
concerned that maybe I'm not going to
have enough hands to move us what is the
moving truck company is closed down I
don't know if I'm even gonna be able to
get a moving truck I don't even know if
I'm gonna be able to get the keys to the
studio to be able to move my stuff in
that's time everything and it changes
like day-to-day hour-to-hour what is
going to happen what isn't and
and we really were really having to live
in the moment just having faith that
everything is gonna work out and it well
oh yes very well if anything I've seen
so far is that the community is backing
us the community loves what we're doing
and and that to me is a huge
encouragement when I entered like this
month I was very uncertain and for me
this has represented our community
showing that category 5 is wanted is
desired and that you want to see us
succeed and NCS continued and that has
been a big uplifter for me and we're
gonna we're gonna see it happen it's
gonna happen so studio years ago we've
got the lease I've signed the lease it's
it's you know nine-tenths of the way
there exactly and there's how many days
in prefers like we're practically doing
this from Studio II almost
Marsh man Marsh man mentioned that he's
not gonna be able to be here and I do
regret that very much because it really
means a loss that that a community
member of viewer of the show a fan of
the show is willing to come out and and
be a part of our move and Marsh man even
just the thought of that is like that
thank you man like I know that
everything is out of our control right
now yeah so know that I understand that
but look around you look around right
now I think like I want the community
know like worrying we're in good shape
oh we don't we don't have a lot of stuff
the biggest thing bill that I have to
move is this our student our server rack
right which dawn it's funny cuz you just
moved it in so you should know how easy
exactly I can lift this up myself right
I got I got my coffee no problem I
picked up I picked up a good I picked up
a good card oh okay
so like I'm I'm pretty sad so we're
gonna we're gonna make do everything's
gonna work out just fine so but you know
I I just want to say and I know zoom
really limits us for time and I and as I
walk over here I'm just kind of
monitoring because the last time we got
kind of cut off and then we lost our
recording because it cut us off so I
want to be careful of that but I want
the community to know how much we
appreciate all of your support through
this Kickstarter campaign so far know
that the Kickstarter campaign is still a
go
and while category-five technology TV is
safe thanks to the early contributors
everything that is raised from here on
out is just going to improve our stance
when it comes to the OEE so that has to
do with when I hire the contractor how
great are we gonna be able to make the
show I really want to be able to do I
mean Bo you're there with us
you know you own a Marid ride calm and
we all love your company we love single
board computers we love the things that
that you're caring and doing um I want
to do more with those kinds of products
I want to be able to set up a proper set
where we say okay this is this is our
set where we're gonna be doing unboxings
and and setting up single board
computers and doing really cool product
demonstrations and DIY projects and
things like that there's so much that we
could be doing that we never dreamed of
with this space because back then we
didn't have those technologies remember
this was season 8 when we opened this
studio so we didn't have those
to work with that kind of grew while we
were here now we've got a chance to
build a studio get a contractor in set
up a space that has our proper sets the
way that we currently are the way that
we're the show is evolving and be able
to focus on those technologies that were
really really keen on so I'm really very
awesome yeah I'm very focused on like
where are we at right now I think this
is an opportunity for category-five to
say where are we right now
where are we going over the next three
years and say this is how we want it set
up I think that's an opportunity that we
didn't have at studio D and and so I
want to say thank you to those who are
supporting our Kickstarter campaign and
if you haven't done so already it's cat5
dot TV slash kick and know even though
we've met the goal so that the show is
safe we're not going under we're not
going to close down we are going to be
on the air as soon as we're able to from
Studio II but everything that's raised
beyond where we're at right now is just
going to help us to build that set make
it as good as possible make it as
wonderful as we can so that we can
really progress as a show as a community
give you the content that you want and
and make it look as good as possible I
want the show to look really
professional as well I think we're at
that point where category five not only
can be but should be at that point where
it just looks really good I wanted to
look good for you so that when you sit
down and watch it you can say hey that's
category five I helped make that and in
that'd be really cool before the meeting
plant plant closes down on this I want
to say to both you Robby and Sasha keep
doing what you're doing because you guys
rock you wrong
thanks be nice to you thank you well I
think we are out of time for our zoo
meaning quickly any any other comments
or questions before we before we wrap up
I know we're gonna get cut off here it
happened so quick I know I know we
should do this again
I imagine that we're going to do this
quite often from Studio II and it's
gonna be a lot of fun are you living
it's how many maintain cheap and whole
number of meetings you can have oh no
the the limits are that there can only
be one hundred people per meeting and
the the limit is timed to 40 minutes but
I did find that the last one they
started cutting me off at 30 Oh
so 100 is not bad actually yeah
so from studio yeah from studio II we
could have a fair few people
participating in our zoom meeting and we
could make that maybe just like a
portion of the one hour show you know
what would be fun actually I know I'm
just pitching an idea for an episode in
the future yes but could you imagine if
like a certain number of people had
exactly the same product and we were
doing like an unboxing a simultaneous
that would be so much fun that would be
a lot of fun I don't think that's been
done before I met everybody can come up
with a unique twist on how to use it a
combination c2 and rock age 64 model B
I'll take 100 of those rivaling this
tops now in terms of power that's crazy
yeah
my computer set up a Raspberry Pi will
do in terms of in terms of driving
normal Linux experience it's amazing
I just took down my PC my Dell PC and
I've got Debbie and running on my Odroid
h2 yeah that's that's a nice one
the n2 is great that rock pro 64 is
great they're all to me they're a lot
more powerful than even the PI 4 but the
PI 4 is the one that gets the the lion's
share of the attention because of its
popularity we also do carry those but
there's a lot of interesting single
board computers on the market I've got a
n2 right here this is actually one that
runs the shipping department right now
don't drop it
big box right here this box here is all
single board computers it's like you
know what it's like 20 times the size of
the box
that's all single board computers right
there now you switch back to the four
camera again I don't see me now it might
be sister Shasha it might be just the
audio whoever's talking like oh it's
just the audio I could describe the
blocks it's like 16
so we can do listen we are going to be
back with more zoom meetings for our
Kickstarter supporters so make sure you
get over to cap 5 TV slash kick and
participate and we will see you next
time
take care everybody I you think we
really do it says I don't want to take
the risk boys last time it cut us off
and then I lost all the files if we call
space bait I'm starvin no yeah I need to
pack things in my mouth and eat them
