I see that the recording is going so you
know for Saturday April 11th
keep checking the calendar yeah
no idea what day the week it is anymore
what's a date it's just a mess I've been
here in a while
work has gotten me big this the tenth
the scheduled conference calls for me
right at noon I don't know why all week
actually I was double-booked yesterday
okay hey I'm working I'm still getting
paid yeah that's a good thing yeah yeah
yeah so many people I know are out of
work I wouldn't know what to do I don't
know how to do it I need to pay
everything off I'm thankful I was a
corrections officer for the state of
Connecticut is that for 21 years so I
have my state pension cool so I've been
doing IT jobs I do I went back to school
for IT and I'm actually right now I'm a
between contracts I've been doing
contracted positions for the past two
years so on and off so that's good so
yeah so obviously I'm not going back to
work anytime soon but hopefully I'm
still looking and we'll see what what
happens if they're you know if there's
jobs that I can do remotely you know or
just wait until this blows over and then
you know work out a physical location
yeah I was luckily I got one of the guys
up in Rochester requested that I be part
of an a project in northern New Jersey
even though I don't really support that
because I work in New York City in
Manhattan but I Drive through the town
that the project is going to be in so he
said no I want you on it so I'm covered
for a little while it'll be remote so
right yeah so that'd be good honest
though I'm still covered for a little
while at least looking from home yeah
yeah and my wife still works she has a
hurt her her job is associated with
military contracts and stuff like that
so she's considered what I call the
essential essential essential yeah so
yeah yeah my team covers from New York
City down to through Virginia and the
guys and my teammates down in in
Virginia and DC they're busy you know
all the government offices are open
they're running around and I've been
sudden sitting in the house for almost a
month now but they're going out there
you know they've they've got the
protocols to follow we have letters that
we have to show the clients and they've
got to be at wear gloves and masks and
everything yeah so but I'm like I'm
sitting you're doing not nothing but at
least I'm not going out right it's a fun
thing everyone in a lot of places if I'm
not going to public offices or you have
to wear protective masks on all this
crap if you did that two months ago that
you might be having a few visits from
security right
see my thing was the Mike I work in
Manhattan New York City and they my
clients they didn't wait for the
governor to shut everything down they
shot themselves down so yeah I'm staying
at home working when I can learn another
stuff when I can yeah it's rare they
were watching a few of the watchman
videos he's been doing a few and a
bicycle videos to and from work yeah
everything is empty yeah yeah you know
traffic and the traffic is actually
going at the speed limit yeah you uh you
you've posted one you put a lake up for
one of them and it was the almost went
right by my office like I can't even get
away from work so I took apart my
Raspberry Pi cluster because I had a
couple of nodes that got corrupted so
just rebuilding and all yeah and I have
to replace my and I have an external
hard drive and I noticed yesterday that
I don't use it as often so I have a few
I have some music on there and if the
error message says in the syslog is to
believe everything is gone for so I may
have so yeah my koster wasn't connected
to a UPS and I had some power outages so
a couple of the notes got corrupted so I
got my eighth Raspberry Pi 3 is there
and I'm just rebuilding one but one by
one can little HDMI monitor connected to
it
something something different let's call
something I want to do for a change you
know instead what is that like just a
fun project or is that something that
your Trump you accomplish something with
her no just a fun project I need
something to do I have done that I'm not
required to do you know lately I've been
doing a lot of stuff that I'm required
right yeah so to me this is downtime but
I know I do you know I come from a
computer and IT background but I even
know you know you know messing with
computers since the actually said 778 I
took computers are not in high school
and then messed around with mostly I had
a RadioShack model one for a short
period of time then mostly with
Commodore and be messing with computers
ever since and I've been I build
computers I got to like I mentioned
before I got to run Ethernet through my
house and and and set up speakers and
stuff through the house so it's been
it's been interesting one of the one
thing just a a little project that well
I could I'm going to I have a an
entertainment closet that's behind my TV
and that has I kind of built a a wooden
wooden rack like it's not but I
eventually I actually want to put a
server rack in there and have stuff
mounted I have I'm gonna have a my
router my my cable modem and I have a 24
quarts which in there like runs Ethernet
throughout the house
nice so I want to want to rewire that
get it all neat and up and yeah maybe
the next coffee break oh oh I'll take it
from the basement where all my stuff oh
yeah I have a wife I have a lot to do in
the basement as well yeah once if I can
get to it the basements are wrecked
total wreck right
and here comes Sam one plus seven bro I
was able to make it yes you hey what's
it like down there
hopefully it's raining today hopefully
raining yeah we haven't had any rain in
last four weeks
Wow yeah you guys need it done yeah oh
you guys doing sorry I'm late oh that's
okay I'm good
just chatting no no Robbie today buddy
high bidder oh yeah
Robbie gotta go to work and I'm in this
in the process of purchasing are used to
you server with their six slots for hard
drives so nice it's a do something with
a 96 and gigabyte of ram ooh wait so
it's the price is around 200 200 yeah
that's the bargain that's a good one
yeah I thought so too so and I've been
pondering their last few months there
too
get on your immune system to offload
some of the virtual machines that I have
running on my main desktop system you
know and then this disc came out and
it's on our drive away so it's not too
far and he has been using their system
in a VM my first introduction to
computers I was 12
Wow they it was funny though cuz they
they they had an advanced map class in
my junior high school and they they
offered me a summer class in college
which like I just got out of school I
didn't want to go to summer school and
when I was 12 you know yeah but my my
parents made me go at least for the
first day they were gonna I was gonna
learn pl-1 they realize it was just way
over my head and there was no chance I
was gonna get a computer at home either
sighs and I couldn't do it okay if I if
I knew now I knew that if I knew then
what I know now right right I should
have should have stayed in it yeah my
first experience in a computer store
there was at their 6th grade that's good
in 86 I think in the Norway there was on
the region computer manufacturer who
made that computer I think it was was
only sold in Norway and there the
operating system the operating system
was movie and all the commands was in
the video and I remember we made a new
agent in this program to be very easy
were asked questions about what does
this mean in English and then we have
see tries so
she had the teacher had their
pre-printed up the source code and we
had to enter it so nice that was fun
earlier there was a bad knowing I just
bet rooms and corridors and again
another machine code and seemingly Tony
were young
I was going to retroactively all I
wanted okay to build builders of things
and I've been at second I hope you were
to go to my ring would do each massive
any wiser
Malevich five churches of openness it
was over that I remember a friend of
mine had a Commodore 64 at home I
remember going to play a game so he yeah
he set and then here on my command and
then he he he pushed play and then he
went outside and played for 45 minutes
before fire five size of I don't know
hundred KB was already something
spectacular yeah that was huge I have my
Radio Shack model one I had a cassette
player when I
I got the Commodore 64 I didn't even
know what a disc drive was but I know it
was better than the cassette player like
the computer the Commodore 64 costs $200
the disc drive that came with it was 250
dollars Wow
this Drive actually costs more than the
computer that's crazy
he'll go my makeup boy bounded upstairs
with ultra guides with arrangement from
the guy Gregg Zaun to gave me he was a
cute incubator had to act as well I was
about 28 older than he was I would say
by the opportunity to help engage
computing could have absorb oh my god
and it would lead you had to act like
say me wasn't about that's what he
thought I was ugly tomato that guy he's
very good I mean ooh bloody brain
he bought I used me got 1,200 I think
and the guy who sold it this was in the
90s and the guy who sold it have used it
for a few years to edit video and I
remember reading that when the pen when
the Pentium 4 came out that it was the
first known Omega system that could that
could that had the same power as far as
video editing was concerned as the Amiga
1200 the had from maybe 10 years before
that thank you
in the early Mac in target I think that
was Ben's I'm jaded in the Macintosh
yeah I never did end up carrying an
Omega they actually worked there
Electronics Boutique which is what's
right now which is now EB gay
they still exist
Hey yeah it's called EB Games now wow
she brought up games and gadgets so I
actually started there part-time and and
after four years became store manager of
a local electronics boutique
I remember those in the malls yeah you
know you know though that certainly was
a lot of fun and anyways yeah the the
Amika machines they had the elgato
capture cards and stuff like that I mean
that was AI was state-of-the-art hmm
what I could be shake me a dieter
telling them oh yeah Jake Jake I love
that you think you're in it new boy I
could share yeah and if I remember
correctly the amiga had no other oh come
on Lonnie trace everything goes I
recently read in the press here that
they're looking for COBOL programmers
like crazy oh yeah I saw that
Wow I started after basic COBOL yeah my
dad worked COBOL I did
Fortran mostly Fortran back in those
times in those days that's impressive
that's really tough stuff I enjoyed it I
mean that's what I learned in high
school I actually I don't know if John
Wally which is now Wally computer which
is great hit local here in uh
in Massachusetts he was my high school
teacher and we found we did Fortran on
the punch cards and fed him into the big
computer in the other room and that's
and it was great because I I kind of had
free rein I mean I did all the classroom
stuff but I loved the program and so I
would like make
my own programs put him in and I would
show them to him and he'd play you know
he was like okay what you know he would
go through and like what about this what
about you know one of us is pushing to
do to think about improving my code yeah
I know I don't need I don't lose it yeah
yeah I don't really consider myself a
coder I certainly you know I certainly
have the foundations I haven't really
done a lot with it in a long time
although my grandson is so working on
always gaming in using a called now just
just recently and and but involves some
c-sharp scripts so I we're working on
that together my my grandson's nine
years old so he he's been messing around
with that it's pretty impressive what do
you what he knows and understands
already at nine years old yeah Ron get
him in to get him into dog chained
programming block chain absolutely I
mean starting with JavaScript and then
maybe Python that's it and all those
languages in blockchain are based on
those we're basically on those two yeah
and and he set for life then they're
looking for I mean if you want to have a
job then in blockchain its vacancy like
crazy and salaries of a good programmer
their minimum 150 K Wow they'll be
working by the time he's 11 because they
all goal in the in there and the basic
so there's nothing I mean with Fortran
you classified as a geek
I'm speaking over the program I remember
20 years ago over there the year 2000
scare was going around I mean the last
half a year before the turn of the
millennia
I remember reading that the US
government there was an article about
the the system that run the the printing
of them their pension cheques and the
salaries of all their government and
employees a few million that was good
having a salary each month and and and
they said that they did not know what
would happen after turnover and in
January when there was going to be a new
batch over printing because at the
system that run was at that time it was
eighteen years old and no one has the
source code and the company who made it
business 15 years ago no one had the
source code and they have I think they
even managed to get hold of one or two
of their developers who made the program
and no one had the source code and no
one had any idea how to check if it was
my uncle the yeah I'm guessing that they
had tried that but it was a successful
for some reason and I also remember that
there when the turn did happen I read
that the only system that actually I had
a crash due to their y2k was some
governmental large system in China but
all they did was turning them off and
then on and everything
oh yeah I remember those days for there
everybody was in an uproar getting it
because all the computer dates were just
for two digits for the years they've
nothing yeah it was good business
machines yfk was big business all you
have to do this circumvent this first a
computer the record first to enter the
date manually and then it changed from
nineteen to twenty that you first they'd
said change automatically so you all
have to enter the date manual and then
you were safe there you go but I
remember I had with me on a New Year's
party there that year I had with me they
game and watch that I showed last week
and in case that if something happened
and good old times yeah and now I'm
about a month ago I read that they have
the Linux kernel developers they have a
managed to fix the Year 30 in 2038 a
32-bit date in integer and rolls around
how it does yeah and then by that time
most people should have their switch
away from the 32-bit operating systems
also yeah but it turns out that indeed
there's a few special cases that they
can't do that for in the medical
appliances and so on
but they actually fixed that they they
changed how it they'd changed the
function that counts the date from 32 to
64 bits just
function and then made on us they made a
patch available and a new release are
you are you by the way following chess
coming from Norway a little bit because
there's currently two computers battling
against each other world championship
won it one is Norwegian and the other
one is American and it's really really
interesting I remember I did that in the
program many years ago 15 years ago I
think I had risk the game the window
session and you could have three local
players and and I I decided and one time
I did it just to see what would happen
made all the player self and a computer
I did see here again the longest run it
actually took the computer two minutes
for if one side to win and everything
[Laughter]
looks like we're coming down to a half
hour yeah fun guys yeah yeah let's do it
again sometime
don't be bound the Apple now usually
fast apply which blew up maybe that
little bastard blew up and you ask me
why I blew up after you bought the thing
long way round and it was plugged into
stuff well the player that you're lucky
you didn't lose your face today it comes
to a controller things the past water so
nice
you'll be the fix-it boy blog all
frickin time I'm all there together
though
and he called go to because if the
police would stop it also said that
tough time I'll see you again come join
that six months gone boy year time for
helping digitally no gone for another
year and they directed alginate right
[Music]
SATA filtered out and dumped on the go
to go up the river and and coming to
that guarded by twisting a everything's
as well oh yeah
Orion is on the road from where Randhir
there's nothing between here the new at
dads about fall I melt away in other
direction and in forward retro jet
straight records over yet balamani
Colerain and butcher will we don't talk
about bush real winter prayed with each
other they all to breed with each other
to bottom face on there who do ya go get
that very vision is row like I wonder
what world I am today if you did a jump
JG knowledge as I do who do you think
you are that's good trouble there
all right gang I'm gonna cut then cut
out here it's 12:30
yes been great another coffee break
Saturday April 11th yeah and join us
tomorrow and that maybe I'll have a
Robby focus on the videos
yeah hope so you know tomorrow is Easter
know what he's doing my mother's
birthday tomorrow she's 92 our number
thing my mouth oh yeah if you don't eat
oh boy but she's going to come right
okay guys have a good see you tomorrow
bye
