covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias when the 1+8 Pro was first
announced the photo chrome mode appeared
to be little more than an artistic color
filter while it produces some
interesting results when photographing
trees and plants as it turns out it
allows the users to see through smoke or
fog or clothing the filter seems to work
by capturing infrared light that is
otherwise invisible to the naked eye
there are many professional uses for
cameras that can see infrared light such
as allowing firefighters to see through
smoke but it's less common in a consumer
device like a smartphone although the
company has stressed that the photo
chrome filter cannot see through thick
materials it apologized for creating
privacy concerns and causing troubles
for oneplus users and other netizens the
company said in a statement on its
english-language forum while we think
this camera gives users the ability to
get more creative with the smartphone
photography we also understand the
concerns that have been raised oneplus
will remove the accidental x-ray
functionality from its oneplus pro 8 Pro
phone in an upcoming over-the-air update
the company said Tuesday it's also
temporarily disabling the camera filter
they can see through plastic and
clothing in the Chinese version of its
operating system until the update is
released choosing to leave it
operational in its global OS
