we're starting a series on micro tech
routers these are a disruptive
technology in that they provide features
that are only available generally on the
market as enterprise level features so
you've got to pay a lot of money to get
these kinds of features well these
little guys from mikrotik are able to do
it a lot cheaper we're talking about 10%
of the price so it is a great thing and
it allows us to create a better home
network a better office network perfect
for SMBs or self-employed people so if
that is you or if you just want to make
your home network as good as can
possibly be well this series is for you
we're gonna take you through I'm going
to take you through everything from the
basic setup today all the way to
creating a guest Wi-Fi network that is
going to allow your kids friends to use
the Wi-Fi without actually risking the
integrity of your personal data there's
a lot that we can do with a mikrotik
router and we're gonna help you through
that throughout the course of this
series the series is available at cat5
dot TV slash mikrotik so make sure you
go there and you're gonna see each of
the videos plus the hardware that is
going to be required speaking of
hardware now I have opted for the micro
tech cap AC router board RB 9 6 2 UI GS
and the reason that I've opted for this
particular model is well there's a few
different things essentially it has
Gigabit Ethernet now my internet here at
the studio is gigabit internet so if I
had a router that only did 10 over 100
I'm gonna actually only be getting 100
megabits per second on my internet
service even though it's capable of so
much more so I absolutely needed to
ensure that my router is going to
support the Gigabit Ethernet so that and
the gigabit internet so that I'm not
losing some of the speed of my internet
connectivity that's very very important
second to that is the fact that it has a
dual radio so 2.4
and five gigahertz Wi-Fi so I can put my
cameras on 2.4 gigahertz which is a
pretty oversaturated band but at the
same time I can have five gigahertz for
my phone and my other devices so that
I've got better speed better
connectivity and it's going to work
really really well
it supports 802 11 B G and n Wi-Fi
capability all from within this little
device that is not going to cost us a
whole lot of money you can find out more
about the product line go to our website
cap five dot TV slash mikrotik and
follow the link and that's going to take
you to an index so what is interesting I
should say I've already kind of covered
this in the introductory video a couple
weeks back but just to be clear what is
neat about mikrotik is that it is not
limited by software so the firmware of
the router does not restrict you in the
same way that a traditional consumer
router would typically you have to pay
more for more features well mikrotik and
their router board OS if they it is
completely wide open as far as features
Heco's so the only consideration as you
buy a micro tech device is what is the
hardware going to do for you so you need
to make sure that it's that the device
that you're buying is going to meet your
needs is this the right device for you I
don't know you may be able to get away
with a lesser one something a little
smaller a little bit a little less
expensive and and you can go through the
list of their hardware and figure out
which one is right for you but keep in
mind the software that runs it from the
very cheapest thirty forty dollar router
that mikrotik makes all the way up to
the very most beautiful rack mountable
six hundred dollar unit the software the
firmware the capabilities of the
programming are completely the same so
the only limitation is based on hardware
so you can start off with something
really cheap and work your way up later
you can upgrade if you need something
better that's pretty cool
so again cat5 dot TV slash mikrotik the
now all that I've done is plugged in the
power so far but what we need to do
first and foremost is I need to bridge
my internet modem so my internet service
provider has provided an internet modem
that allows me connectivity but that
modem has a DHCP server it has a
firewall and it's basically allowing my
computers to communicate to the Internet
well I'm gonna replace that built-in
firewall in that built-in router with
and the DHCP server with my mikrotik so
I need to do what's called a bridge so
the modem that my ISP provides mine is a
hITRON modem I need to set it so that it
is nothing but a modem and then we're
going to use this device to control it
so the way I'm gonna do that is I'm
gonna log into the interface and the
hITRON modems rcus admin is the login
your modem is going to be different so
do keep that in mind it's gonna be the
IP address of your gateway you can find
out more by contacting your ISP if
you're not sure how to do that but just
ask them hey how do i bridge my modem
that's the important thing so it is just
gonna be a dumb modem that gives my
mikrotik access to the Internet so on
the hITRON I'm gonna go into basic and
then gateway function and residential
gateway function is enabled by default
I want to simply disable that now keep
in mind as soon as I say okay
I'm gonna lose access to the Internet
once I hit Save Changes so let's do it
because now I have turned that into a
dumb modem so let's grab an Ethernet
cable and let's let's uplink our router
board so the router board port number
one I'm going to set as my LAN port so
I'm gonna connect that into my network
just get this out of the way this is a
little bit rickety because I'm doing
this you know
pretty makeshift but you're gonna get
the idea basically port number one from
the router board is going to come out to
my my modem so I'm gonna plug that in to
my modem here there we go connected and
good let's see yeah doesn't seem to
matter which port I go in I'm gonna just
jam that in there there we go and now
I'm gonna take the cable that was up
linking me to the network and I'm gonna
plug this into port number two on my
router board and that's going to give me
access to the micro tech I say router
board mikrotik is the brand router board
is the product so my network which is my
switch is now connected to port number
two so my computer is basically seeing
port number two port number one on the
mikrotik is going into the back of the
actual ISP modem which is now set to
bridged mode so let's jump over to our
mikrotik first of all we need to see
what's now one thing you're gonna notice
is that I am at 10.00 dot
to find out what my new network is now
that I am on the micro tech ipconfig
/all so this is in Windows in Linux
you're gonna type IP space dash a and
let's find out what kind of networking
I've got here okay I'm still seeing a
default gateway of 10.0.0.0 it has not
refreshed yet so well let's check so I'm
on Windows 10 and even though a reboot
could trigger basically fixing your
network by trying to reconnect all I'm
gonna do is I'm going to right-click on
my a thern ed adapter and disconnect
disable the Ethernet adapter and
re-enable it and now once it reconnects
I should be able to do an IP config
slash all and should see yes
okay so we now are on 192.168.1 so let's
try that 192.168.1 and there we are with
router OS so in retro ass first thing we
with now this is the quick-set so this
is allowing us to quickly set up our
mikrotik router device so let's see
what's happening here so DHCP server
range I want to change that to 10.0.0.0
to 10.0.0.0 for now you may not need to
do that because you may be using
192.168.1
- I here at the studio I use the
10.0.0.0 block so that is general
networking and not really what I'm
setting out to do here and and teach you
but essentially that's my IP block if
you're happy with 192.168.1 that's fine
I'm doing 10.0.0.0 my router and setting
the DHCP server range accordingly from
one hundred to two hundred and fifty
four all right so anything else that I
need to set here I can set up my
wireless and everything else I'm gonna
do that in a little bit so let's just
get our IP address working here so I'm
going to hit apply configuration notice
the address acquisition is grabbing from
Ethernet port number one that's why I
plugged my modem in there and I've set
it to automatically get the IP address
so let's see what happens here as as I
apply that configuration so we should
see that that router is going to restart
itself and when it does we're gonna be
on a 1000 that work
cheap and cheerful solution alright 10
dot 0 dot 0 dot
to to get everything set up okay so
let's let's renew our DHCP from this is
our internet connection let's see what
it's given us let's release and renew
make sure yes we are on Ethernet port
number one I do not have a live
indicator light so something my cable
wasn't plugged in all the way ah that is
thing number two to do so do you see how
that just popped right in boom I am live
on the internet so now I should already
have access to say Google yes I am
online let's do a quick speed test let's
see how she's doing
go-go-go so that was a pretty miserable
download speed upload speed not terrible
test again something's up there maybe
we're just in that you know that
pandemic internet speed everything is
pretty slow right now yeah getting
pretty low speeds so even still a 10
over 100 router would only give me up to
100 megabits and I'm pushing 156 right
now that's pretty bad considering I'm
supposed to have a gig but at least I
know that I'm getting better than 100
megabits a second so there we go
everything looks pretty well set let's
jump into web Figg now this is what
makes the mikrotik so very powerful this
is the software which you will get lost
if you try to find your way through here
and note that that's as quick as it was
to get everything up and running but I
am going to need to set up things like
under IP I can set up DHCP reservations
so as my devices connect I can actually
set these up as static devices you'll
notice it's counting backwards so my
computer actually got to 54 so it's
actually starting at the high end of the
DHCP pool and working its way down
which is fine if I wanted to I could
make that static by simply clicking on
make static again I'm an IP dhcp server
i've single clicked on my computer and i
can click on make static i'm not gonna
do that but i will need to do that with
things like my server when i bring those
online so that is really like really
cheap and cheerful quick setup of my
network now let's actually get Wi-Fi up
and running so Wi-Fi is pretty
straightforward i'm going to add a Wi-Fi
password of
dum-dum 1 2 3 don't actually do that I'm
doing that for the sake of the
demonstration
okay so network name on 2 gigahertz I
can leave it as is or I can say cat 5 TV
2 point I guess I can't I'm not sure if
I can have a point in there or not
I'll go cat 5 TV and then for 5
gigahertz I'll go cat 5 TV 5 gigahertz
yeah alright so see the options here
bheegi bheegi n b GN GN and then we've
got a n/a n/a n/a only AC and n with a
see there's my password okay so looks
good
apply that configuration now one of the
things that's really really neat about
this okay first of all you notice I'm
not having to reboot my router every
time and notice I'm starting to pick up
some Wi-Fi connectivity here
I don't have to reboot every time I
change the configuration and when I
create any kind of config it's
instantaneous so but what is cool about
web fig this web interface so notice I'm
accessing this through the IP address of
the router is that if I were to brick my
mikrotik and I don't want to lose the
settings that I've created how
presumably you've backed them up because
you can within web fig that's part of
the system so if I jump into that do you
I want to say it's in system system to
do recent reboot ports see how fast this
is I will find and cover backing up your
micro stick oh there's a sub out dot
riff file so that will do it but if you
were to cause a problem that would not
that would make it so that you cannot
log in to this mikrotik provides a piece
of software so I've just logged out and
you can down
and install wind box wind box is a
Windows application it's also available
for Mac and it gives you the interface
it basically detects your router on the
network and it gives you the same
interface with a little more
functionality like micro multitasking
but even if you cannot get into the web
interface you can use wind box
I say it's a Windows application you can
download it and run it in wine on your
Linux box so do not be concerned about
that notice I can login with no password
so I want to go into quick set and just
set myself password on my router dum-dum
1 2 3
dum-dum 1 2 3 and apply that config and
so now if I log out and try to log in
again its gonna say authentication
failed so I'm going to try dum-dum 1 2 3
enter make sure you use smart passwords
ok folks
best way to do that is use a tool like
like LastPass and generate a secure
password ok grab that make that your
password and and then use LastPass or
whatever password manager you're using
in order to memorize it and that's going
to keep you a lot safer
of course the interface is only
accessible within my network so it can
be something that's familiar to you as
well so that is so we've got Wi-Fi
working presumably so let's see if I
bring up my phone here and drag down
let's bring up our Wi-Fi networks and
you will see cat 5 TV 5 gigahertz is
there and ready for me to connect I'm
going to try it connect to it and type
dum-dum
1 2 3 connect and obtaining IP address
and I'm in done and it's detected cat 5
TV the 2 gigahertz as well and I'm
connected so now if I go I pee and then
DHCP server and go into my leases you'll
see that there's a new device that's my
phone so I can make that static and I
can and notice that is the polka phone
polka phone f1 Robby so it's as quick
that to pick things up be able to
configure it and literally we we just
set up our internet and got up and
running in a matter of minutes what are
we gonna do for the rest of the show
folks what are we gonna do
so check out cat5 dot TV slash mikrotik
these devices are affordable they are
powerful we're gonna learn all kinds of
amazing things that we can do with this
it's so much better than the built-in
firewall and protection that comes with
your ISPs modem it removes the ISPs
ability to be able to connect in and
access your network that's important
think about that for a second when you
install a a modem from your ISP your
internet service provider they have
access to that remember when I bridged
it that made them lose access to it now
the only device that they can see if
they're trying to track is the the
mikrotik they cannot access it however
they might be able to see just that
there is a device connected I could
connect another hundred computers they
would still only see one device
connected so it gives you a fair amount
of privacy against the ISP snooping as
well and that said it's giving you a
huge amount of privacy against script
kiddies and hackers and everything else
but at the same time we're gonna be able
to create a safer network within our
internal infrastructure which is going
to be fantastic I mean it's so nice to
be able to give out a Wi-Fi password to
your friends and family as they come and
visit but you don't want them to have
access to the files on your server to
your printer to using all your bandwidth
as you're trying to you're trying to do
something online and something's weird
it's running so slow well little did you
know that somebody who you gave your
Wi-Fi access to is downloading a movie
from next door right so these are things
that we're gonna be able to prevent with
our mikrotik so check out the series
cat5 TV slash mikrotik it's gonna be
amazing and we're up and running I'm
gonna put this in the rack and
I'm excited because this is a way better
solution for my network
[Music]
