I have no scissors I have no knife
I am completely ill-prepared for this
what is this but I think this is for you
does it say it says to Robbie
it's a everything says to Ravi okay you
think it's for how do you know it says
this is probably for me huh when you get
into it do you need me to actually get
it I'm now stand back okay what do we
got what do we got okay come on get in
there here we go we have oh oh it's
official ladies and gentlemen you've got
a satchel of some sort okay what did yes
okay what what operating system are you
running on your laptop there this is my
cloud ready and I have a cloud how was
that for timing right just like I got a
cloud ready notebook and a cloud ready
notebook
this is have two types of cloud reading
notebooks here this is amazing what is
this that's this is like 3d printed okay
a little tissue
cleany thing you keep in your pocket and
blow your nose so many things what do
you got is this hand sanitizer never
wear hand sanitizer come on like you
read my mind
are you serious I actually said this out
loud too right it's so dirty when I type
on my cloud ready computer oh this is
like a card sleeve like I know sleeve
and it has like a sticky all kinds of
crazy stuff my cards it literally is a
card sleeve well I've got a USB USB
flash drive okay I've got some chapstick
amazing she's got like lip balm and hand
sanitizer promise sticker nice it's
going on the back of my computer is
going on there that's gonna be on there
for next week right yeah it is
okay like this bag keeps going oh that's
it I think that these are just bags for
you and Jeff oh really yes did I get
some lip balm noise so yeah the
unofficial official about ready
spokeswoman here on the set we
appreciate that very much and we love
swag
[Music]
[Applause]
