it is Thursday 16th of April and welcome
to Sabu and Peter Lutz and Ron Morris it
and I say mush man-made and icy air
illustrious leader Robby the last really
[Laughter]
well I wanted to bring it up because and
I was I was gonna mention it yesterday
but we ran out of time but we had a
discussion I think last week or maybe
the week before I don't know cuz can you
believe 27 coffee breaks so far but
Microsoft we had the discussion that I
was saying like Microsoft is actually
doing some good for github and they've
made it so that it's free for teens so
now I can create private repositories
with unlimited amount of team members on
that repository for free yeah and that's
all because some someone there in the
Microsoft team was watching oh sorry
about all those things I said about you
we we take back everything we should
have bet you promised so I didn't say I
take it back just apologize okay
apologize for my brutal honesty I just
thought that was great so I had to start
off our coffee break with a little bit
of praise to Microsoft which you don't
get often from Robby right you're right
I'm gulps Mac you run your own github
repository that are your own github not
github get server by denying us it's not
hard it's not hard to do
I run Linux throughout the house I don't
run Windows so that that's just for your
own codebase like I think it's correct
what's different about me is that
because I run nems Linux for example
other people need to be able to access
it so it's not just for me and if I want
to make it public I would use so git git
lab you know either one that doesn't
doesn't matter there are plenty of
places where they'll host git
repositories so once you put it out
there you've lost control of it right so
you just don't anything not losing
control so much as did we lose bp9 so
I'm still moving
yeah yeah all right
it's be p9s connection that's dropping
out today I was gonna say it I don't
know that you lose control you just lose
godlike power over your repository
because anyone can fork it right that's
all but presuming that it's open source
although I don't know what the
regulations are on a private github
repository like I use private github
repositories not for proprietary
software but for stuff that I don't want
in the public like people forking and
using and you know more like my own
stuff that I'm developing for internal
use it still gives you godlike because
you know take it away
wow that conversation really died I
heard back from go ahead give them time
to go if you'd like of the way people
but I think that got them going double
alright so the perfect segue is since
we're already on the topic of he gives
and he takes away
I found out that we could do
construction and heard back from the
contractor and said oh sorry that's
great news but I'm completely booked
until May so construction cannot
continue even though the government says
they can oh yeah I could find another
contractor who's available but truth is
this guy comes highly recommended
I I think he's got good vision for what
we're doing and and so I think that I
think sticking with him is the way to go
just means more delays
welcome back vp9 yeah connectivity
connectivity why was today a well what
happens there's something weird about my
paycheck propagation my new verse
connection that if somebody reads if
somebody calls and leaves me a message
almost guaranteed that will kick me off
the internet and it may have happened I
don't know I did not hear the phone ring
I've got noise-canceling headset on the
days you remember the days of ADSL and
we have call waiting code to turn it off
right and then r67 comma comma yeah a
friend friend of ours called I got a
busy signal I'm not supposed to get a
busy signal and say look it's my phone
you get a busy signal when I say you
move demand connection so did you see
Kay
and after a few months people started to
complain
it was they no longer could just call me
on the phone because it was always
occupied with all day no wonder it's
only 33 K yeah and when their phone line
was occupied for the Internet a form of
force occupied and the year next year I
am okay SDM and then I yes and yes the
end line I had until I stretch me is
slightly ironic strikes me a slightly
ironic that now if after neck goes down
my phone doesn't work in a year guys
I give you a box with a flow to it once
a lot of us go to the got the audio of
the file and the other ones are like
well filter cutoff above 1 Meg the ug to
the internet now you shouldn't need to
mix between each other I did a gravel
road in there voted yea the carbon of Z
filters here for a DSL lines yeah or you
can get a pot splitter you can install a
pot splitter if it
that's so who uses a DSL anymore I would
I would go noting that rule bang that's
so brutal yeah I like you're talking 800
K upstream
that's 16 you must have had a double
bonded network connection or something
as far as and I paid for 20 megabits
down and but they they law in there at
the cable stretch to the central and the
set was just across the street but it's
a run through all the other apartment
complex and the lines that was almost
three kilometers and that means it is
there and it's the cutoff point for how
far you can be and have a and
have a BSL in the longer line that you
have such a modem which they wish the
electrical the good is a we don't have
in late late the gaps at the bridge I
get upset about that was they know your
driver means lying there dead brutal dog
is right for taking it everybody I think
everybody could use a phone I know I
could use it and the first thing I did
after moving here was I knew that week
two weeks before I am a package over
Miguel Linux and on July 1st version 7
collapse and I always say you sourcing
to download the the binary and the
source here over PM's and I knew that
was about maybe 200 gigs that was about
to come down and I was waiting to
download until I got here because and
when I guess this came out it was about
the same size and I the download was it
for almost three days and this time it
took only six hours so they take me five
minutes in the studio burned bragging
rights descriptors and and it's still
only used six hours so you know but I
got it will turn I got where the winner
tonight you know it took they actually a
to get from so I have to probe and I
came up every every time like it would
you know I will take it up like de
espa√±a y boy I got
outlaw improved from government and
Jaden mulling but afraid of ago we never
died after graduation if egg and it is
very 12 like as I explained you did yeah
we did very very solid fold up joined
the college Walton the rage rage 1e top
daddy wailing it is a guy who films in
it in his rage are you in the gap are
you in the guitar Lynch are known from
there yeah one day on the road network
or doubt could you know why did Jeff I
put the arrow up the top right for why
he was in high school he lived in the
only house in the it was the only house
like studio D after you move there's no
internet to carry his baggage including
computer screens and the neighbor
upstairs so it was the police who came
and arrested him out why affiliate girl
able to wrap it all up that's one the
nerves like to where the dogs very
creative
to go around there one up on the couch
and down in the likes down in matters I
did a deputy didn't bother to lay as
well because a my colleague guard on
that direction and he dated raw egg in
there tried to bathroom for Michael he's
a Javanese people with impossible
critical for I mean a proper internet
connection daddy boy in the dollar daddy
banana but that damn down the board up
there themself buddy up all the on the
college which is about so I bought the
way that years ago they didn't have dog
died all up really well are there yeah I
don't think it it be possible to
especially for a program or us or you
know somebody who's at least somewhat
internet savvy I don't think a dialogue
would work at all anymore or even a DSL
it's just this way unless you have
access to
I thought you're gonna say a bottle of
scotch unless you have access to a
bottle of scotch Peter with with all the
backlight today is really giving me a
throwback to 1980s crime drama and
witness oh I hooked up or I didn't hook
up I got out the one you server chassis
that arrived yesterday last night at the
studio and kind of placed single board
computers within this one you chassis to
see how I would wire it in and how many
I could fit and big assortment of stuff
everything from a no droid end to
Raspberry Pi for two couple of Oh droids
and xu4 there's a couple banana pie in
there orange pies so I was able to
actually fit nine single board computers
within that 1u chassis with enough room
left over for the fuse box and the the
power transformers as well they might've
there I think that's gonna be pretty
neat runs background amethyst oh my
goodness dude I would I have looked for
something like that maker verse Wow so
you have to have a 3d printer but that's
my or have somebody else print it yeah
that's perfect
oh man oh I thought you had that wrong I
thought it was behind you in the room
here yeah that's what I I'd love that to
stick that in a in my rack at the at the
studio yeah although I do like that I'm
able to yeah I do like though I mean cuz
Raspberry Pi to me like having used so
many different single board computers
Raspberry Pi is like the least I guess
as far as like reliability goes so I'd
rather have like an xu 4 so if i could
have something like that with some xu
fours in it that would be amazing
well given how you were UN both have
talked about how raspberry PI's can
corrupt the SD card when the power drops
suddenly or it was you and masked man I
think it I think it was masked man who
said it because he's got all kinds of
different single board
Peters yeah I may have to go get me like
a no droid or two or something like that
- yeah I'd start letting Odroid xu4 I
think Odroid XP or is the real like one
to one like comparable to maybe a PI 3 b
plus but a little bit more power than
that plus it's going to two gigs of ram
so but it has an emmc emmc port on it so
right you can you can plug an emmc
instead of using the SD card which is
exactly why it's more reliable although
the power thing with the Raspberry Pi is
it seems to be a real issue like I I
have had I did not realize get damaged
now I did not realize that the it was a
an issue specific to the Raspberry Pi I
thought it was an SPCC issue global him
I've never had it happen with any other
SBC Wow okay you can replicate it with a
rapper bridle I given the dirty power
for a day yeah I'm gonna look at the
yeah definitely gonna look at the
AirDroid for sure I like it a lot what
do you think bill xu4 is probably a good
drop in like one to one comparable but I
think the end too if I was looking to
actually build like a pretty nice little
system to end to or maybe the HC one
would be a the way to go so the HTC one
being the one that has a you could plug
an SSD into it let's just see I'll be
happy to get a more powerful SP saying
the problem with that I'm not using
SPC's day-in day-out I still use my
desktop machine day in day out cuz I'm
still you know ripping baby days and
stuff like that so I don't think this PC
can do that I think it has to be at this
top to be ordered install a desktop OS
on on like an xu4 or something like that
oh sure yeah but don't expect to get the
same sort of power you get out of it
transcode sweet
yeah right right right sure yeah well I
mean I'm using the h2 almost exclusively
now on it right now so that's like your
desktop during those I have a Windows
machine for the proprietary software
that I have to run for certain things
but I'm almost i i rarely turn on my
other Windows 10 machine at this point
yeah one of the things I do want to do
Robbie I have an inform inform people or
something like that and what I want to
do a big may need to google it and I
should just you talking about an anode I
know I'm talking about a process that
I'm looking to do an object you would
know better than I would I have an mp4
so it's a video file okay I want to I
want to split the first few minutes have
any mp4 I'm sure there are tools on
Linux that will just do that right mm-hm
yeah ffmpeg in the command line you can
oh that's perfect
I already used that to to transcribe
from one resolution to another round
some of the videos I haven't like 4k and
right and they have to be transcoded on
the fly to my to my 1k just take that or
the most used method is to encode there
a few minutes there that you that you
need that is the easiest way to find the
guide somehow to do but you just simply
take their first few minutes and not
re-encoded afterwards I know you can do
that but it's hard to find it already
yet the resolution and everything that I
want I just want to cut those first few
minutes here
so yeah that's what I'll do all right
good one as I say already using 50 yeah
it's in Pig I'll get it right one day
yeah I'm having a slug I love that your
internet kind of went a little bit slow
there as you said it all right okay good
thank you for that Robbie I appreciate
it yeah yep Google yeah I use it for
tons of stuff I use ffmpeg to transcode
from h.265 to h.264 because I don't have
a 265 chip decoder chip on my plex
server so it stutters so it doesn't it
doesn't work as well but also if I if I
get some files by perfectly legitimate
means that happened to be Russian as the
first language like an MK MKV file or
something that is like multilingual
rather than having to go in and change
the language every time I click on a
file I rather just re-encode it with the
proper language okay sorry not rien code
just recreate the file using ffmpeg I
don't yeah you're right don't don't rien
code because then you're actually having
to wait for it to read
but that's ffmpeg has the - be : copy so
that that will just copy the video but
yeah you're right hmm oh boy I think we
are almost out of time it's hard to know
because I started a little bit late
today I wasn't sure if I was going to
get held up in a meeting but but I ended
up being able to come up to the lunch
room 11:26 so I did some more just some
real quick degree I agree with the with
the point time I looked up the display
documentation to try and understand had
like a wouldn't it's around
described and it looks the it looks like
the 0-0 coordinate or pixel is in the
top left-hand corner or let's top
left-hand corner for me but yeah that's
at you yeah and then X works normally
right that is that it runs across to the
right but it looks like Y increases as
you go down as you as you translate
downwards and that is different to how
normal XY graphs work right XY graphs Y
goes up as you as you increase okay you
know a translate upward so I've got to
figure out I probably just need to
litter I don't need to turn the clock
place 90 degrees to get the clock here
to twelve o'clock there and then
translate the whole thing down once by
whatever number of pixels it is I'm
still reading the documentation I still
can't figure out if it's 240 by 240 or
320 by 320 I have a boyfriend I'm just
waiting for that shipping notification I
know but I have a suspicion that might
be 248 crops and 320 down now which is
given the mode but it's a square I think
there's an on display area top and
bottom of the of the vertical part so I
think it might are cropped to 240 by 240
240 minus y I will put it on the bottom
yeah yeah yeah I know I know how to say
I've done that many times before it was
just a question of understanding one you
know what the actual coordinate system
looks like on the plane time versus on
my graphical window because in the end
it doesn't matter what it looks like on
my screen on my computer screen
we regardless of whatever graphical UI
desktop I use what matters is
suppose don't be laid out on the punt on
display Steve so I can't wait to get it
I can't wait to get it and I'm gonna I'm
gonna run your firmware on my watch for
the first well when it exists there's
nothing there but in big files right now
that's just Mike if we're on prime time
that means it's going to be about three
months later than you never know when
aim is ohm worship it though right I
mean it might arrive tomorrow you you
you're as confused as I am was about
what a hunter essentially gonna enjoy
it's been going for think about doubled
and what was a broad path blood project
and happy March him a birthday and I'm
too wet into June hey right there come
June again into my kitchen couch would
you doubt yeah one thing you can't trust
right now is Amazon's projected delivery
dates because I ordered something that
is supposed to be here may 11th and it's
already at the post office waiting for
me to pick it up so it's all not very
accurate right now rather than say it's
gonna be out that later
yes yes exactly and I think that's
that's the safety net that they've
created
they just said yeah everything's gonna
take two months to get there and
realistically it doesn't it just it just
stops people from ordering stuff
willy-nilly shows that they are not sure
about how the postal delivery is going
to work playing it safe yeah yeah we
don't we're not sure about the postal
system on the best of days that by
Vanguard was almost done
yeah well guys I'm Minh up coffee break
for today and I'm already looking
forward to tomorrow's it's hard to
believe tomorrow's Friday and then I'm
gonna be at the studio trying to get
things ready because Wednesday I'm on
the air so I can't wait join me for
coffee break and of course plan to be
watching on Wednesday night as well as
category-five relaunches from the new
studio
yeah great afternoon everybody we'll see
you soon
