I'm learning from the technology that
I've invested in now my budget was 100
bucks as you know so a few weeks ago we
started looking at the various
technologies like my fitness tracker
like my smart scale that allow me to
educate myself about my health to be
able to lose some weight inevitably as
kind of a side effect of that and I have
consistently so so whenever I tell you
how much I've lost it's it's only based
on consistency so if I if I hit seven
point six pounds loss and then I went
back to six point I'm gonna I'm not
gonna tell you seven but I've been
consistently beyond of the seven pounds
mark now so another couple pounds since
last week and I've only been doing it
for a month and it's just by educating
myself but part of that Jaffee is yeah
eating a little well eating healthy but
I've cut carbs as much as I can from my
diet because I learned about the fact
that I'm burning carbs instead of
burning fat and it's working as really
it actually is working so yeah I did
like I've been using cauliflower instead
of rice so ground up cauliflower yeah
it's actually delicious yeah so it's
like a rice substitute but there's no
carbs so but it's just like a plate of
vegetable instead of rice you can cut up
some green onions yeah oh yes mushrooms
and stuff like that I would I'll have
pizza once a like I get a cheat day once
a week so I took my daughter for her
pizza and we had like a cheese pizza and
that's fun I also have started so now
I'm at that point where I've kind of not
plateaued I'm still losing weight fairly
consistently but fairly slowly so one of
the things in we have a Biggest Loser
channel on discord and marsh man had
mentioned that one of the things I can
do to kind of accelerate things is to to
sustain exercise in such a way that okay
like if I run up the stairs yeah my
heart rate gets going but then it's it
settles back down but right I'm done
well so do things that are gonna sustain
a little bit more
sighs essentially so I'm not doing
anything out of the ordinary like I'm
not really changing my life or anything
because I've got to be within reason for
the way that I live yeah but you know I
gave my my 12 year old a piggyback ride
at while we were at Walmart that works
and I'm looking and I'm like holy cow I
burned a lot of calories doing that I
actually kind of started to get sore
legs doing that because it's like he's
12 years old he's a big big guy and and
so for him it was a lot of fun it was a
great time
yep for me it was like a great great way
to sustain that kind of heart rate so
that was something and then I took my
youngest who's nine I took him skating
last night so we just we found an
outdoor skating rink here in Barrie
Ontario and we strapped on the skates
for the first time in a couple of years
nice and and we skated for an hour and
15 minutes or so yeah it was fun and and
for him again so it for the kids it's
like this is great daddy time mm-hmm for
dad it's great dad child time but also
at the same time I'm I'm I've got that
kind of side motive of him doing things
with the kids that are trying to get me
to be more physically active as a
computer geek because I'm for your
children that this fun activity stuff is
actually fun right yeah yeah yeah if
you're like oh go tide and play and you
don't do it yourself it's not as much
fun as if you know dad's out there
actually I'm sure
playing around and I was also surprised
like something like finding an outdoor
skating rink that the city maintains
like they have a Zamboni at their
outdoor skate skating rink like this is
serious real-deal skating and it's free
which was also tax dollars pay for it so
you just go and strap on your skates and
go and skate as long as you want and
it's open until 10:00 p.m. so for me it
was like this is a really really cheap
outing cost us nothing to go out so that
was fantastic so you're living healthier
I quite frankly I'm just not caring too
much right about now but I will say fine
it's very busy weekend yeah on Saturday
and Sunday my watch rewarded me for
beating my
daily activity goals I was like yeah for
the wind because I had stuff to do in a
house to clean there you go it was good
I will say though I think my steps are
lower today Lots week 878 steps you have
a competition at 4500 last week that was
in competition
did you know I don't cheat well no there
has been some discussion and discord on
what cheating really is I play video
games and it ups my step count
I never saying you're using this as a
way to main like I'm doing with the
piggyback rides I maintain that it
doesn't feel like cheating to me use
activity manipulation to win your
contest I didn't know okay so what did
you do this week oh this week I beat
Crimson Fang tell us about it
okay so it's like a real workout yes
well in virtual yeah as you say you have
to clarify though what crimson Fang it
okay so I have an a5 an HTC vive and I
play a game called knockout League so in
that game there's a series of
competitors that you fight against and I
boxing I was in a boxing match
and they are tough they're beasts
because they're not based in reality
they can do things that I cannot do oh
and I was really stuck on crimson Fang
like for a long time because she wears
this mask and if you punched you slow
the mascal bite yeah oh dear and I was
and just like real box that one by based
on reality the mask bite you and Mike
Tyson didn't need a mask the foot and
the fights last six minutes and
oftentimes when I lose I lose like at
the 5 minutes and 30 seconds so you
don't have that staying power for the
full six minutes yeah okay so I had to
really work myself up to the cardio of a
six minute fight I don't understand how
they do rounds of this against real
compare
it was intense anyway so my next
opponent is gonna be a long way off so
was this like exclusively a
cardiovascular kind of like yes like do
you feel it in your in your everything
no there's no there's no physical
interaction right well you're holding
onto the controllers right not that they
have a lot of weight but you're also
like swinging clicking Deacon dodging so
like it's a full-body deal like it's
gotta try this sometime you have to try
it how long ago did she build that
computer two years ago a couple years
when we're supposed to have like a so
however you decide I mean this is for me
as part of my kind of New Year's
resolution but my New Year's resolution
is really just to educate myself that's
how that's my approach and I am finding
that by educating myself I'm learning
more about how things work and I'm
losing weight I've lost over seven
pounds in the past month which isn't
huge but for me I can see it in my face
I can feel it in my body and and I'm
excited about you know where I'm gonna
be six months from now I feel like I'll
be healthier yeah so will i pounds is
huge don't know don't be like it's not
huge that's huge it's a it's a great
achievement for sure ya know and I feel
great about it I'm not I'm not
downplaying that at all I'm just like
it's not like I lost 20 pounds in a week
no no I'm just seven pounds I haven't
done anything other than changed just my
knowledge that's what about 4% for you
seven pounds uh-huh don't make me do
math today Jeff please don't say for me
but open pouch whatever whatever it is
for you I just encourage you to like
check out the technologies that are
available if you've ever had trouble
with with if it's weight loss or if it's
like keeping the New Year's resolution
there's tech that's available like the
fitness tracker like that scale that is
encouraging me by giving the information
about like BMI and stuff that I didn't
know about before my metabolic age I've
lost two years off my
off my metabolic age so I'm now two
years younger in the past month so
that's huge so those kinds of things are
really good encouragement in the end
they'll help you to be able to achieve
the goals just by educating you and and
helping you to see how the things that
you choose to eat and do are affecting
your health so it's working for me so
far
so maybe it will work for you to get
into Biggest Loser Biggest Loser on our
discord channel so go on to category 5
TV join our discord under interact and
and you'll see Biggest Loser there it's
pretty fun
[Music]
