covering the week's top text dorks like
Linux bias just three and a bit years
after it debuted on the platform rocket
League is ending support for Linux and
steamos
psyonix the development team behind the
popular cars meets football game
announced the end of Mac OS and Linux
support in a short statement posted on
their website they say quote as we
continue to upgrade rock rocket League
with new technologies it is no longer
viable for us to maintain support for
the Mac OS and Linux Linux or steam OS
platforms as a result the patch for the
OS and the Linux versions of the game
will be in March this update will
disable online functionality such as
in-game purchases for players on Mac OS
and Linux but offline features including
local matches and split-screen play will
still be accessible end quote
last year's psionics was acquired by
Epic Games who announced plans to stop
selling the hit game on Steam though
without impacting players who had
already purchased it but it's not all
bad news if you already own the game you
can continue to play it on Linux without
any limitations until the March update
arrives after this you can also continue
to play it just without any of the
online capabilities don't forget that if
you bought rocket League for Linux on
Steam you can still access full
functionality including online play by
installing it on a computer running a
supported version of Windows not an
ideal solution but at least you don't
totally lose your purchase burn Linux
users what I agree however how many avid
gamers are Linux users all of them yes I
like to believe but you don't see people
using Linux for the purposes of gaming
maybe that's part of this too is that
okay my kids play that on the switch
rocket League is like the Nintendo's
which all the way now right now yeah
yeah I'd say the switch is where it's at
so I will say that we had to install
window windows on only for gaming
because of gaming yeah because you got
the VR headset and everything yeah yeah
that makes sense that's why I have
Windows on my computer like I have steam
with my circuit games on it yeah fair
enough
and so for that reason I need nails can
I have access to your account 100 games
I have 3 games I sign up for steam with
an initially came out after the show in
the credits watch for we're gonna have
Jeff's I don't think this is such a big
deal I mean do you typically don't see
gamers running on Linux I wish that it
was a big deal I wish that there was
more of a wave toward Linux sure face
yeah Jerry but you're looking at it in
the currents in the current like this is
now yep not a lot of gamers on Linux ok
so think about this well the products
already on Linux let's keep supporting
it and let's continue supporting Linux
as a gaming platform because it's a
great gaming platform if there's theme
OS right from a monetary standpoint
they're finding that the return on
investment for having programmers that
will deal with it on a Linux base is not
viable on the long term based on
subscribership then it totally makes
sense it's a business decision I can't I
can't fault somebody for that I don't
know I feel like it's it build it and
they will come sort of situation they
just are there they're not coming
costner and we're not dealing with
ghosts all i care is that Unreal
Tournament runs on Linux yeah I don't
care about anything else
in this entire world yeah yeah but
that's how you know that's that's yeah
it's unfortunate vitami they're not
investing in Linux anymore but it
doesn't surprise me
mm-hmm I mean it's not like you go what
breaks my heart Jack yeah I still I wish
that I could
choose a different operating system but
I need Windows to play my games I need
okay
I need my cosa dual booting is a dual
booting for the win so Windows 10 for
gaming Linux for everything else
everything else but it doesn't have to
be that way game developers need to
realize that we could just have Linux
and then make this world a better place
DaVinci Resolve is on Linux so just
bring bring rocket League back
