covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias ring Amazon's video doorbell
system has introduced additional steps
to the way users log into their accounts
and is making two-factor of verification
mandatory nice users will need to enter
a password and unique six digit code
when they first log in to view their
security footage or access the neighbors
app two-factor authentication was an
option for ring users before but it was
not the default setting on Tuesday ring
also said it would pause its data
sharing with third-party firms the
change comes as ring and Amazon face
increasing scrutiny about privacy
protection and data sharing in a blog
post rings president allele a-- roie's
said the company takes quote digital
security and privacy seriously end quote
and would look at additional ways to
improve security rings a new login
system will be similar to other two
factor authentication processes after
signing in with the username and
password the app will ask to send a text
message or email with a one-time six
digit code once the code is entered the
user will have access to the app and be
able to view footage from outdoor and
indoor cameras owners will then be able
to use their mobile apps for 30 days
before they're required to go through
the two-step process again unless they
log out of their accounts in the mean
time last week nest Google's home
security device began requiring
two-factor authentication as well good
move I like this I like that they're
making it a compulsory thing not a fan
of 30-day window though why okay I think
it should be shorter to be honest but if
you log out
but because I'm thinking like cuz this
is my computer yeah right so it's only
gonna remember it on my computer right
if I switch to a different computer or
somebody tries to compromise my account
they're gonna need the 2fa in order to
sign in right but still I feel like 30
days is a long time
for you can logout let's say you don't
log it like how much can be accessed in
those 30 days on potentially a shared
device I mean I would hope that you're
not using on a shared device but I think
for a lot of people on a home computer
or maybe like a laptop or something I'm
assuming this is also going to be the
same case with phones if you're viewing
on your phone like I think that that
likely 30 days is the mandatory you can
probably set it to be more frequent I
would hold on I mean I have a lot of
two-factor authentication devices and
most of them I just set to every time I
think also though you're putting a local
spin on the security right you're
thinking along the terms of somebody
breaking into your house and having
access to your security cameras but if
they have that then they're already em I
get that but I I don't know I just to me
30 days seems long I could two weeks I'd
be okay with two weeks two weeks makes
sense but 30 days to me seems long what
do you think should it be 45 days I
think that the idea here is not so much
the spin that you're giving it but
instead it's to prevent illicit access
from outside I don't I don't want
somebody from Latvia being able to
access my security course I don't want
but I guess Latvia by the way nothing
against Latvia
they're very peaceful people I don't
want somebody and you can have access to
my cameras I'll give you my two f8 code
right now but my point is that I think
that's what I'm trying to lock it I'm
trying to walk down yeah people that are
trying to hack into my security cameras
I want that two-factor authentication to
block that attempt because even if they
get in they can't get further than than
2fa because they don't have my device to
get that code right but it's not just
text it was also email you know if
they've gotten into you once it's a
one-time-use password
so once I've logged in on my computer
with that 2fa code they can't use that
same code again that's an area of access
to your I mean like this is what I'm
saying 30 days is not
great I would rather see you know what
is great though that it's happening at
all yes exactly it's compulsory by
default which is that's the advantage
here right we don't all think about
especially novice users who go to a
Super Center and buy one of these smart
cameras and don't know that hey I really
need to enable two FA mm-hmm you know
what some people are right turned off by
two FA which blows my mind when I was
technical session right when I have
people over to my house and I'm you know
showing them my VR and I have my Steam
account it's two FA and they're like why
do you have it so that it texts your
phone and next time you go to like hey
what's the two FA for your Wi-Fi and
then I have to like explain it to them
but they're like oh boy it's like my
banking is two-factor authentication
like all like I like it
to me it feels good well done yeah I
think I think to efface should be the
default for all security for everything
yeah yeah yeah
it just makes sense and it and it let's
be clear and Jeff it is not perfect
security no it's not perfect it's not
perfect it's not flawless is not
uncompromising it's just a very good
added layer of protection to prevent the
the average to fairly exceptional hacker
from being able to access your stuff
that's all so it's a really good easy
way to do that and and you know it's
until they come up with something better
that's the best thing going so comment
below what do you think and how many
days ship to FA on your ring doorbell be
set for by default for jazz legend
