hovering the week's top tech dorks like
Linux bias Microsoft Set sent out an
advisory on Friday detailing and under
it an under attack zero day
vulnerability for Internet Explorer the
scripting engine flaw can be exploited
to gain remote code execution of a
vulnerable machine by way of
specifically crafted a specifically
crafted web page while this particular
flaw can be mitigated by restricting
access to the JavaScript component
jscript dot d ll there is no patch
available to actually fix the
vulnerability even if Microsoft is Swift
to create a patch they plan to release
it on an upcoming patch Tuesday since we
know that's the second Tuesday of each
month
they're leaving this takeover exploit
active in the wild for a good four weeks
or so at least these kinds of horrendous
security practices are another reminder
of why we shouldn't be trusting
Microsoft to provide our antivirus to
there is no practical reason to be
running Internet Explorer these days if
you must use Microsoft Windows download
Chrome Firefox or better yet get the
brave private what excuse me private
browser from cat5 TV slash brave to
automatically block ads while you surf
the web it's brutal
yeah yeah Microsoft has been continually
letting us down Windows 10 has been a
nightmare as Microsoft to ever not let
us down I mean maybe back like Windows
93 95 we can say that but I mean it no
it did feel like they were giving it an
effort but at one point they had the
better team they had the the testing
team before patches went out and but
stuff like this and having to wait for
weeks for it's actively exploited yes
yes that is a takeover bug like this is
something that could completely
compromise an entire network of machines
and so if
somebody a miscreant knows of the
vulnerability within let's say a
business network and actively exploits
it because it is like understand folks
this is an exploit that is currently
being used by hackers to infiltrate
networks it is currently being used so
if that's the case wouldn't it be
prudent for a company like Microsoft to
say we need to fix this and we need to
fix this now yes instead they're waiting
a month at least at least four weeks I
mean we're talking the the second
Tuesday of February why four weeks
though like why that's that's arbitrary
it's just the second Tuesday of every
month is when they issue their patches
well I get that but yeah why not push
through an update because they don't
because it's the rollout happens on it
on that schedule they this is the thing
they've said that they've set themselves
up for this type of failure see I their
infrastructure is set up for this type
of failure now but I don't know why they
couldn't even just post it to their
website and say update manually like
nobody's gonna do it but if you unless
you know but even if you know that that
patch exists imagine if you had a
hundred computers and you had to
manually go like Windows infrastructure
right now is a brutal nightmare that's
true it's just ridiculous and it's
really causing companies I especially
companies that are currently stuck on
window like that have Windows 7 machines
intermixed in their network yeah a lot
of government agencies and we're looking
at okay well what do we do next do we
buy all new systems so we can install
Windows 10 because that's usually
necessary unless you can maybe put more
RAM in them because you're gonna need at
least like twice as much RAM you're
gonna need an SSD to you know make it
right yeah like you're gonna need to
upgrade you're not gonna be using a
your old computer for windows 10 that's
for sure though at least not without a
couple of little upgrades so you know we
look at that and then we say okay well
what other options are there and these
are things that we're gonna be talking
about here on the show but it really
just makes you go wow hold on let's back
up a second and say what's really you
know what's what's happening here mm-hmm
maybe it's a wake up call to to say
maybe Microsoft has got way too much
control over our corporation been saying
that for decades a lot of people have
and I don't and I'm not even saying that
out of my Linux bias that we call it
here I'm saying that out of the reality
of this is actually happening right now
there is this active threat that is
being exploited and Microsoft is not
doing a darn thing about it until the
next Patch Tuesday yeah that's
ridiculous
it is Microsoft not vying for like some
special government contract for
something cloud related right now you're
talking like you know something but
you're not actually saying something why
I feel like we're hearing about like
there's the the US government's looking
to go cloud or something and I like
Amazon's
like Amazon was in on and there's a
bunch of different companies I thought
Microsoft was in on as well well there's
only in the three big ones well yeah but
I mean I'm thinking about stuff like
this it's like if you do any push every
four weeks if I'm vying for a government
contract to create something new you
think you'd want to have a better
business model well like yeah I'm not
even touching on that like the business
end of things I'm talking like the Xbox
end of things
this impacts all should it should make
the government's grow like wise up and
say maybe there are more secure options
out there yep maybe there are better
options out there and
that my dear friends is where my Linux
bias comes in that's right
[Music]
