we don't often do like the you know
general media news however is this
worthy no absolutely but a couple weeks
ago I was talking about how the new Star
Trek the card show as silly as the name
as I mean they could have come up with
something a lot more creative perfect to
do you name what's his name I know
Star Trek Picard call it that they could
have called it Earl Grey do anything
with a little bit more creativity to it
it's it's perfect because it's exact and
you know exactly what to expect yes yes
and because it's about Picard it's not
about a new ship or a new endeavor it's
about it isn't it that's that's what I
don't know I guess we'll see however I'm
back a couple weeks ago when I was
talking about it we did know by rumor
that brent Spiner was going to be
rejoining as data oh I was about to say
Lieutenant Commander data hood I'm like
no this is twenty years in the future
it's quite probable he has progressed
the ranks yeah as progressed his
positrons have have evolved like has a
mastered emotion I don't there's always
a chance of that but also we got to keep
in mind that the data died right so he's
a computer just reboot him no he was
destroyed he backed the class so that's
wonderful
he listened to our advice and had
redundant backup so we'll we'll see how
that shapes in but we've got great news
this week and we find out that Jerry L
Ryan is joining the cast as well yes so
that's an interesting mashup because
Jerry Ryan who plays seven of nine on
Star Trek Voyager yeah right so not a
part of the next generation team from
that show it was it was Voyager a couple
years later that that she was involved
in so so she's gonna be there and
we've also heard are you ready for this
Jonathan Frakes exciting whoa and I
actually heard about Jonathan Frakes
from another cast member who's going to
be rejoining the Star Trek fans remember
told you know where you heard it I heard
it tell you what I was sitting down for
coffee with marina and marina said that
her and Jonathan were gonna be a part of
the show so we have Will Riker and
Deanna Troi are a part of Star Trek
Picard universe so now I'm like what
this is like the next generation family
reunion now yes I want to hear that
levar has been invited back I want to
hear that that Gates has been invited
back and you know the whole crew I mean
just just to let bygones be bygones
would it be nice if Wil Wheaton was
welcome back okay with it if he shows up
makes a comment and Picard goes shut up
Wesley Wesley Crusher cameo right there
absolutely brilliant
and now you know transitioning over to
the Orville ya entertainment news so and
thinking of the Orville who actually has
quite a few cast members from Star Trek
but we're not talking as well hop corn
know the Orville they have an
interesting announcement this week in
that even though Fox creates a show they
because of the the way that their
special effects have evolved in the
first two seasons season two who was
nuts and it's actually really kind of
amazing that their studios were able to
pull everything together and have
everything ready because it was just
incredible guys
and because of that the demands of their
production schedule they're not going to
be able to meet Fox's timetable for a
mid release midseason release so they
have announced
that they're moving the Orville season 3
- Hulu - Hulu oh not yet sure how that
impacts us here in Canada yeah certainly
American audience is gonna feel the
impact of that this Fox still owned it
but they'll just be putting it off yeah
they're gonna really it's been a really
interesting time hasn't it because Fox
was bought by Disney yeah
so yes Fox still produces it now it's a
fuzzy door production but that's Seth
MacFarlane's Johnny oh yeah and and Fox
is the I guess the creating studio
that's where they produce it and where
they film it but as far as the broadcast
end of it it's not going to be happening
on Fox's network it's going to be
happening on Hulu which takes it away
from the old traditional medium I guess
because Fox being a terrestrial station
as well as digital yeah and puts it on
exclusively digital format so it makes
me wonder if Fox will still air it but
only after the rest of the season has
gone live on as a rerun yeah yeah
because I can't see them walking away
from the ad revenue
exactly right mmm like they had revenue
hmm I'm you know what I don't know as I
say how that's gonna affect us here in
Canada interesting interested to hear if
it's actually going to affect you or is
it just gonna be a case where hey we'll
just sign up for Hulu because we love
the show so much that's a possibility to
Disney streaming service it may be on
various services - yeah well your just
commented and apparently Fox may or may
not have some share of Hulu right so if
it's like a same company oh maybe
there's some oh I didn't know that
that's everybody owns everybody I'm one
corporation owns everything I was really
expecting them to dress as Disney
Princesses in season three with
pronouncement that Disney bought them
out so I guess that's not happening they
still need the special effects team to
take care of things
did Seth McFarlane in a princess dress
unfortunately yes yeah and he would be
singing some crooning croonin and he's
great at that too
[Music]
[Applause]
