here the story is recovering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom personal
data belonging to nearly all adults in
Bulgaria has been stolen in a massive
cyber attack on the country's tax agency
Microsoft's future in Germany is in
question again as the German state of
Hesse a declared the use of office 365
to be illegal within its schools some
early adopters of the raspberry pi 4
released on 24th of June are running
into heat issues especially with the
official pi/4 case making no provision
for a heatsink or fan and the Facebook
app to keep kids from talking to
strangers online fails it's one job
these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
that TV newsroom covering the week's top
tech stories is like Linux bias i'm jeff
lesson and here are the top stories were
following at this week personal data
belonging to nearly all adults in
among the stolen data were names
addresses and even some details of
personal income cybersecurity researcher
Veselin bond chef assistant professor at
the Bulgarian Academy of Science
reiterates it is safe to say that the
personal data of practically the whole
Bulgarian adult population has been
compromised the hack occurred in June
but an email purportedly from one of the
culprits was sent to the Bulgarian media
on Monday it mocked the government's
cybersecurity standards as a parody the
email also contained an offer of access
to the stolen data and said the trove
contained information on more than 5
million people as well as businesses
Bulgarian police have said that while
they have arrested and charged a 20 year
old man on suspicion of involvement in
the attack they are examining the
possibility that others were involved
the tax agency now faces a fine of up to
20 million euros Wow that's a crazy
story that is like could you imagine if
oh hey all of America your information
has gone on like how that even work
because you'd have to go over like even
here in Canada your sin number your
address everything but what about
Equifax yeah
okay but still that's not that's very
and these are like when it comes to the
tax company
yeah I'll say the tax company but the
tax agency you kind of expect that your
data is safe
you would think you'd hope so and you
don't you don't really you're not opting
into them storing your data right so you
you put a certain trust in your
government to keep your data safe yeah
that's really scary well yeah but I mean
it also makes you wonder okay what other
areas of the government are vulnerable
to this kind of attack like was it just
the tax agency was there something more
like is there other areas like who knows
and the fact that virtually every adult
had their information stolen yeah
like well even just thinking that it's
probably not even encrypted right if
it's just in plain text cuz yeah if they
can't tell you yes what we have then is
even locally so it's not even it's not
even obfuscated I don't have any wow
yeah that's true too and and does that
come down to government budgeting and
funding I know I you know I I don't work
with government too much but I do work
sometimes with government agencies that
I often hear that there's just not the
budget for what is being recommended
yeah and if that's the case so if I say
okay you really have to do this because
ransomware is a real thing and it's
growing and RDP brute force attacks are
a real thing and growing and you're
susceptible to this so you need to lock
this down you need to do this yeah oh we
don't have the funds for that that's a
big concern yes and companies need to be
concerned about this too we need to be
very diligent with our cybersecurity and
I've spoken with cyber security
professionals who have said like if
you're not annually reassessing your
security measures then you're falling
behind
I think you've you think it really is
not enough I mean it's got to be a
constant thing for the IT department
sure and
and you know the communication between
the IT department and the c-suite but
the actual implementation of new
technologies to monitor and control the
flow of data in your network has to be
an annual thing and how many companies
buy their computers and have them
installed and they are up and running so
until they start crashing we don't need
to do anything that's a scary place to
be in these days no I mean aside from
that just kind of thinking about the
information that's been you know stolen
the fact that it's in every adult in
Bulgaria is there a security issue to
this like you know from what perspective
the fact that their addresses are now
Noah known I mean like you think of
high-ranking government officials that
might serve their addresses unlisted
mmm-hmm for privacy reasons or whatever
right now their information is like oh I
see you gonna have to pack up that's
possible move like yes that's right it
did say business always like there's
some not just digital security but
potential physical security sure to this
as well for direct attack but also
social engineering attacks mm-hmm you
know if you get a phone call where
somebody knows this much about you and
you're not clued into the fact that this
is like phishing scam or spear phishing
exactly then you might provide more
information yeah sorry bucket and and
social engineering attacks have gotten
so smart guys very much so so smart and
planned meticulously there's two types
of social engineering attacks that I see
these days one is untargeted and one is
targeted untargeted means you've got a
Windows XP machine sitting on your
network and they found it because
they've got BOTS that look for those
exploits and they've noticed threads
with $20,000,000 when we clicked on it
yeah you clicked on it now there's
targeted on the other hand where they
find out about your business they find
out about this is what happens to
government this is what happens to some
businesses they find out about who works
for you and what what information they
need who your vendors are who your
customers are
and once they've accumulated that
knowledge yeah then the attack begins
yep so that whether they so they can
contact you as one of your vendors they
can spoof the phone number that comes up
on the phone using a voice over IP
service and and then you think though
this is this is my supplier calling and
they're telling me to send them a check
for X number of dollars because the last
check didn't arrive right actually
interesting enough I had a phone scam
phone call about a website that I owned
yeah but because it logs all the
information online because I got a
anonymous as far as the the data that
goes online for the Whois yeah somehow
they connected the website to me and I
got a phone call and as oh it's so and
so from the provider yeah you know we
found an issue we need you to reset your
password I'm gonna send you a link I'm
like counsel yeah I can happen no I'll
visit the panel myself I'll check the
and all and and make sure you've got two
factor authentication I was impressed
like yeah sounded legit I'm going nope I
don't think so mm-hmm so it's all I'm
gonna get worse that's true so we have
to remain diligent we have to become
diligent we got to be smart to say okay
hey that bank email you know what I'm
just gonna actually ignore it but I'm
gonna either call my bank that's right
by the number that I know is the bank
not the one that they show on the email
or walk in there are people here I
thought it was just ATMs Wow no there's
actual people who can answer your
questions and say nope that transaction
never occurred you know so be diligent
folks okay
Hesse declared the use of office 365 to
be illegal within its schools
HESA is one of 16 federal states of
germany with a population of roughly 6
million around fourteen percent of the
entire population of Germany although
the press release specifically targets
office 365 it notes that competing cloud
Suites also do not satisfy German
privacy regulations for use in schools
the Commissioner Commissioner of data
and freedom of information hbd I said
what is true for Microsoft is also true
for the Google and Apple cloud solutions
the cloud solutions of these providers
have so far not being transparent and
comprehensively set out therefore it is
also true that the schools for the
schools the privacy complaint use is
currently not possible this isn't the
first time that part of Germany has
publicly broken up with Microsoft Office
some German cities including Munich and
Freiburg famously ditched Microsoft
Office applications in favor of
OpenOffice in the early 2000s those
open-source adoption programs have had a
notoriously rough ride plagued with
interoperable interoperability issues
just because one town changes its office
applications doesn't mean its
neighboring towns parent state or even
its own citizens have the municipalities
have also been targeted heavily from
with lobbying by Microsoft itself up to
an including Steve Ballmer than
Microsoft's CEO interrupting a ski
vacation to fly to Munich to try to cut
a pro Microsoft deal in person however
the early 2000s attempts to break free
of Microsoft was a matter of choice this
time around though the Commissioner
isn't just saying that schools would
prefer not to use Microsoft he's stating
that their use of office 365 is outright
illegal in addition to the physical
geography of the cloud the HPI is
unhappy about telemetry in both office
365 and Windows 10 itself neither can be
disabled by end users or organizations
and the content of both remains
undisclosed by Microsoft
despite repeated inquiries it appears
that the HPD I would rather not ditch
office outright preferring to pressure
Microsoft into compliance with German
law the office lays out the conditions
under which schools could continue to
use office 365 it requires that all
possible access to user data by third
parties be curtailed and that the
contents of Windows 10 and office 365
telemetry be revealed in full until then
HPD I says schools can use other tools
such as on-premise licenses on local
systems ok that's interesting that in
all of that they want all the
information that is in the cloud to be
accessible
outside of Microsoft is there were these
controlled by them oh right but like a
like as far as oh this is kind of our
back-end right area nature attack and
yeah but also the being proprietary is
the infrastructure in place to simply
take it and make it an on-premise
solution yeah maybe that's not a
solution that said I mean looking back
at the attempt to switch to OpenOffice
back 19 years ago basically now it's a
lot more possible Oh things like
probably it's widely more supported oh
yeah and then the compatibility is no
longer an issue but these days I mean
there's so many different options but a
lot of them are cloud based a lot of the
options like Google Google Drive Google
Docs yeah is a cloud-based solution so
that doesn't solve that but it shows
that the technology can be placed in a
decentralized like not on the computer
in a server so can we not in deploy
something on a server that would work
and Microsoft doesn't have that right
that I'm aware of
mmm so far no yeah they're gonna have to
if they want to but still it's an
interesting one I mean the fact that
you've got this service that's provided
by Microsoft Google Apple and and all it
takes is a piece of legislation ago it's
not good enough mm-hmm so is the company
forced to comply with laws or they're
gonna say alright too bad so sad like
we're gonna like I'm a bit of an eye
opener though isn't it like doesn't it
make you say oh well one this is good
that a government is saying okay this is
a privacy issue that our citizens have
no control over where this data is
stored or who has access to it ya know
let alone having access to it themselves
but also it just like it just wakes me
up as a as a software developer as well
okay well centralization to proprietary
platforms is probably not a good
business model these days well
especially with you know they if you're
selling software yeah exactly but I mean
like you look at the the EU privacy laws
really tough imagine if they went a
little bit further and suddenly
all of that from Microsoft Apple yeah
Google was no longer valid and Europe is
now off market example government Sam
Raimi this race firewall of Germany yeah
think about this though like now okay
where does it end right like there's a
whole other side of this
what about antivirus anti-malware where
did the definitions come from that's
true right they come from like the the
the very earliest antivirus got them
through an online service so that it was
like an early cloud yeah when a new
virus is discovered the virus the virus
research team creates the definitions
and your computer downloads those yeah
from the cloud and we'll call it the
cloud that it didn't exist back then
there was no they didn't have a name for
it was just the antivirus definition
servers yeah right maybe it's not the
same thing because there's the locate
where these are our documents documents
have private confidential information
but then the flip side is that of that
is well when a virus is detected it gets
sent to the analysis server right which
you can opt out of well that is true
yeah that got his Persky in a lot of
trouble in the US she's threw out a well
that one huh okay but think okay so
here's the interesting thing about this
story it's about the school boards are
saying sorry it's not good enough for
schools what does that sign is he aspect
of it right what does that say about the
rest of the government like you know if
so much Turner I go is your military
information stored on the the goo-goo
god yes yes it is thank so it's not up
for school but you trust like it's you
know could this open the door for the
entire government to go yeah sorry hands
off and Microsoft is doing it where
they're progressively getting more and
more in the cloud like their so their
products are no longer necessarily even
installed in your computer you don't
really realize that's right yeah it's an
app it's connected to the cloud much
like a Chromebook connects to the Google
stats interesting yeah things are
changing and laws have to change as well
oh for sure
all right some early adopters of the
Raspberry Pi 4 released on the 24th of
June are running into heat issues
especially with the official pi/4 case
making no provision for a heatsink or
fan the Raspberry Pi 4 has a 1.5
gigahertz quad-core 64-bit ARM Cortex a
72 CPU say that five times real fast for
approximately three times performance of
the previous model the inevitability
generates more heat the PI does not have
a heatsink but users what the company
calls heat spreading technology to use
the entire board as kind of a heatsink
this worked okay on the PI 3 but the
official FAQ for PI 4 notes that under a
continuously heavy processor work load
the model 4 B is more likely to throttle
than a model 3 B+ you can add a heatsink
if you wish and this may prevent thermal
throttling by keeping the chips below
the throttling temperature when the PI 4
heats up beyond a degree degrees Celsius
that's 175 Fahrenheit the CPU is
throttled to reduce the temperature and
a half full read thermometer appears on
the display if one is connected sorry
that's if one is connected if the
temperature goes up beyond 85 the GPU
which now supports dual monitors and 4k
resolution will be throttled as well
it's no surprise that the PI 4 gets
hotter than its predecessor it is marked
as a viable general-purpose PC after all
there is an issue though if it
frequently overheats in normal use users
are not getting full performance
longevity of the components may also be
affected software engineer Martin Rowan
has looked at in detail at the PI 4
temperatures and concluded that it is
too hot to use in closed one of his
component complaints is that the
official case remains a fanless design
sadly this doesn't work out well with
the increased thermal load according to
his measurements compared to the PI 3
the new Raspberry Pi 4 is running 80%
hotter and more than a hundred percent
hotter when the new four case display
support is enabled a long thread on the
Raspberry Pi forum shows that
temperature issues are widespread
casting doubt on the design to supply
the PI 4 without taking any extra steps
to improve heat dissipation
the PI 4 is still great value
of course but adding a heatsink as a or
fan looks to be a sensible idea even for
uh none demanding applications heat
sinks are a neat and silent solution but
fans appear to be most effective
why wouldn't they tested this ever is
the MacBook Pro all over again getting
too hot so you put it in your fridge and
then it's fine tested in Siberia there
was no issue we tested it in northern
Canada but I'm surprised that this
wouldn't have been noticed by the
designers yeah in the kind of QA or
quality control section hmm yeah there
were a few things that slip through the
cracks though weren't there Jeff uh yeah
just a few yeah what was it that beau
was telling us what was it with the pie
for mmm when he was here two weeks it
wasn't there something on the pie for
that was or did we cover in the news
there was a component that they under oh
the the the USBC was miss more yeah
that's right yeah it was yeah yeah
there's a few things kind of messed up
on yep which is too bad I was hoping you
guys would carry that one as I was
dealing with this guy
I'm also the producer so do we have to
restart Wow what else have you got for
us Jeff
all right the Facebook app to keep kids
from talking to strangers online fails
at its one job as it turns out letting
the company with tons of privacy
scandals run a messaging service for
children might have been a bad idea now
there are multiple reports that a
pitfall in the design of Facebook's
messenger kids app lets children talk to
unauthorized users in group chat aka
exactly what the app was built not to do
the app works like this once a parent
has approved a contact children as young
as six are free to chat with that person
through video text silly gifts etc now
that works if the conversation
only one on one but messenger kids
allows for group chats and that's where
the issue of permissions gets tricky
thanks to a bug in the app a kid could
be invited to a group chat by a friend
authorized to do so but the users
therein required no such authorization
messenger kids didn't screen whether
everyone in the chat was pre-approved to
talk to another resulting in thousands
of children talking to strangers on the
internet through an app that was
designed to stop that from happening the
company began alerting users and quietly
closing such group chats over the past
week Facebook representatives further
explained we recently notified some
parents of messenger kids accounts users
about a technical area err error that
was affecting a small number of group
chats we turned off the affected chats
and provided parents with additional
resources on messenger kids and online
safety how long such an important and as
obsessively obvious loophole has been in
messenger kids is anyone's guess but the
controversy that has surrounded the app
since its inception
ever since Facebook launched the service
back in 2017 many children health care
child health care advocates have loudly
voiced a disapproval for it nearly 100
of them signed a letter asking Facebook
CEO Mark Zuckerberg to delete the app
over concerns that an increased screen
time that's been shown to cause stress
negative body images and sleep
deprivation according to multiple
studies and letter sites Facebook later
addressed some of these concerns by
adding a sleep mode so parents could
control how much time their children
spent on the app my goodness wow I'm
gonna tell you a really stupid scenario
to put this into context I'm gonna make
an anti-virus product oh my antivirus
product makes it possible for viruses to
install themselves on your computer yep
okay so that's a ridiculous scenario
right yes actually happened silence
right yeah that was this week too
but here we are with Facebook we're
going to create an app that is supposed
to MIT well is this is going to make it
so that your kids can only speak to
people that you as the parent have
authorized them to speak with oh but
actually it allows anyone to join a
group chat from anywhere and they can
then interact with your children even
though you didn't approve that I mean
when Facebook first came out with this
yeah I was not a fan I'm still not a fan
there's no way I'm letting my kids use
an app like this first off I mean I
think what minimum age for Facebook is
13 yeah but not the kids version well no
I understand but even at 13 there's no
way I'm giving my kids an access to an
account okay because I don't yeah trust
that they are mature enough to handle
the impacts of something like Facebook
and mass social media but to get kids
and grain to this at the young age of
six and then realize oops we screwed up
they're no longer actually protected
yeah yeah I mean oh yeah we've been
collecting your tax data which we just
gave to all the hackers just this has
been quite a week hasn't it still trust
Facebook that's that's even better
question well that's that's the
interesting thing I mean on on the heels
of them getting was it a five billion
dollar fine
plus a hundred thousand for the
Cambridge analytic scandal that only got
fined a hundred thousand
that under my fingernails but like why
do we keep allowing Facebook to go here
let me soak up all your information oh
by the way your kid yeah that's like
this big they're big business Jeff I
just alright let's talk about crypto
thank you Bitcoin has gained huge
earnings this week if you bought a
Bitcoin for nine thousand seven hundred
ninety-two dollars last week well you
made $12 a lot of coffee yeah Facebook
Libre is
not trading litecoin is up to ninety
four dollars and 86 cents per coin these
are the USD Fiat values as of Wednesday
June July 24th 2019 aetherium is at two
hundred seventeen dollars and fifty two
cents monaro at eighty dollars and 53
cents gaining two dollars and ninety
four cents very small gains this week
torque is up just a fraction of a ten
thousandth of a cent at point eight
point nine seven and it's turtle coin
trailing behind slowly but steadily at
zero point eight eight ten thousandth of
a cent per coin so you probably have
lots of them so one day put them all
together to the moon yet to the moon to
the moon any Lambo do remember though
that cryptocurrency is market that never
closes and it's always volatile so be
very careful when you trade and if
you're going to make sure that whatever
you invest is as much as you can lose
take that approach and then you're safe
true
exactly all right big thanks to Roy W
Nash in our community of yours for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category five
dot TV newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Jeff Weston Phil I'm Rob Sasha bring it
right I was gonna say I thought you you
changed I'm Robbie
still just the bald nerd that's sir I'm
still Henry I got a haircut that's good
looks good looking clean looking clean
the summer do
[Music]
[Applause]
