welcome to episode number 615 of
category-five technology TV now another
box has arrived in the mail Sasha and it
arrived just like this and I'm gonna
tell ya it's going to impress I'm sure
it is we're gonna get into this in just
a couple moments time I'll give you a
hint it's a single board computer but
it's not a Raspberry Pi floor stick
around
[Music]
only two solid-state drive by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
flex and other HLS video players the
local show times visit category-five dot
TV category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet fraud casters
cat 5 TV /ia
IP welcome to the show everybody it's so
great to have you here this week I have
a nondescript completely unmarked yet
tiny cardboard box to open unboxing and
believe me oh this is exciting
imagine a world in a world where a
desktop computer would fit inside of
this little tiny box you built a
computer once yes I did remember how
many large boxes it took yeah we had to
do like 17 trips to the dump recycling
now tiny box yeah I'm really really
excited about this I'm gonna give you a
hint it is not a Raspberry Pi 4 I'm
gonna give you another hint it's better
so you want to stick around we're gonna
unbox that we're gonna get a look at it
and we're actually going to connect it
all together we're gonna give it a test
and see how it operates as a desktop
computer we're gonna say we'll just call
it that it's gonna be an awesome show
mm-hmm
before we do get into it though I want
to remind you to make sure you subscribe
to us on YouTube and also don't forget
to click that bell that will make sure
that you get the notifications
every time we're live or when we post
any great new videos right like this one
yes maybe that's how you got here thank
you for subscribing
like subscribe yes exactly okay well I'm
gonna get right over to our unboxing
table here because this one is something
we got to get right into there it is
ladies and gentlemen let's get into the
box for what is the goddess vim 3 first
thing I see is a USBC cable that's gonna
presumably power this thing we've got
let's see here looks like some thermal
thermal interface pads one there we go
oh and a look at that heatsink as well
so the Cod us vim 3 released the same
day as the Raspberry Pi four came with a
power brick there we go oh it's got the
USB C built right into it perfect this
one on the other hand is a six core am
logic a 311 D SOC that makes this 2.2
gigahertz on four cores 1.5 on a note
1.8 on two cores but six cores folks
we've got a screwdriver here and the DIY
case
look I love the design and as this was
the metal base plate as well
this particular model and it's going to
presumably keep things a little cooler
what have we here
well considering the vim 3 has infrared
to channel infrared we may as well have
a Coty's remote control for say Kody or
Libre alack or even Android like that
will work perfectly and the moment that
we've been waiting for the SBC itself so
the single board computer look at all
these accessories that fit in that
little tiny box this single board
computer has between 2 and 4 gigabytes
of RAM now what sets this apart beyond
the S now obviously the SOC is part of
this the a31 1d is not only a 6 core
processor a big little but it also has a
5.0 tops neural processing unit so if
you ever want to get into AI development
this is the board so we get a lot of
power out of this thing and it caught us
is doing some amazing stuff for for AI
development for makers even if you're
just interested in checking it out look
at that board amazing how much they can
fit onto these things these days just
beautiful so we've got the micro sd
there at the top your top as well as the
Gigabit Ethernet I've also got this EMM
or the m2 and some camera connectors did
I say m2 I did we've got antennas for AC
Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 5.0 I'll get into
those specs and there you have it we've
got one USB 2 one USB 3 it's clear mice
my work area here a little bit so
I'm not sure how to distinguish the two
USB ports they look the same but there's
a USB that's the USB C for power
full-sized HDMI Gigabit Ethernet and
another USB and one of those can be
three I've got tactile momentary
switches their power function and reset
and then we've got a 40 pin GPIO as well
perfect for the AI maker or general
maker anyways there you have it
so I want to actually put this into the
case Sascha that I was showing you there
so through the magic of television I can
just kind of skip forward and I've got
all the parts ready to go
couple more specs for you we've got 4k
HDMI and 1080p mipi DSi they can be used
at the same time for up to two displays
they're independent of one another one
of them can actually be touch as well
with the built-in TP connector that is a
thermal pad to put onto the SOC here the
system-on-chip
basically the cpu of a single board
computer that's going to make good
thermal contact between the heatsink
right here and the processors and things
like that right now this antenna is
gonna get in the way here and it looks
like the what I actually want to do is
put it in the case first because the
screws that I put in to mount this is is
in fact going to hold the the
motherboard into the case as well right
got a whole bunch of screws it's just
figuring out which ones we need to use
some maybe extras that Wi-Fi that's
built into this as well it's 2 T 2 R
which means and it is AC it means that
it can transmit and receive on two
channels simultaneously so presumably
we're gonna get some really good speed
and signal out of that we've got these
built-in antennas as well
we've got let's see support for mainline
Linux kernel and in fact it does support
kernel 5.0 and higher we're not gonna
have any trouble with the latest and
greatest so let's see about getting this
in here I just want to be careful
because there are you know a lot of
little resistors and everything else on
this board and these antennas are really
getting in my way Sasha to be honest I
think what I'm gonna do is see if I can
yeah these look like the little SNC
connectors so they're yes I can actually
remove that one push this one aside no
problem that's gonna help okay so the
heatsink that I'm putting on right now
that's basically your cooling for this
it's passive cooling so yes there is a
fan header but we're just gonna go with
passive cooling for the DIY case it
looks really sleek but I suppose with
such a powerful little micro computer
you you could get away with going with
with active cooling is going to be a
good idea so I've got these screws here
and through the magic of television I
can speed this up but these screws are a
triangle they are not Phillips screws
and it did include Coty's included the
screwdriver with this so I have no
problem here but this admin's builders
makers make sure you mark that as a
Coty's screwdriver and keep that
somewhere safe do not lose it I can
understand you know I got thinking why
did they go and do something like that
stupid thing proprietary screws where I
can't just use the Phillips screwdriver
and I thought you know what this is a
really professional SBC this is not a
Raspberry Pi folks this is a what I
would call something for the enterprise
a professional builder someone who's
really taking their building to the next
level I'm just gonna reattach this
connector for the antenna
and along that line I think of it as
more of an appliance like once you've
assembled this you want it to be
something that nobody's gonna
disassemble on you it's it's an
appliance but do keep that screwdriver
handy because it kind of troubles me
that you are gonna need that particular
screwdriver in order to get this back
apart okay all right so there's the case
of the dir the cover of the DIY case
that's how it fits together I mean it's
a perfect snug fit we've got access to
those tactile buttons on the end there
you don't have to disassemble it or
anything to have access to the buttons
the SD card is easily accessible
everything is just meticulously designed
meticulous that's the word I'm going to
use Sasha I'd have to say like this
whole kit together is just an absolutely
fine build very very pleased with the
build quality and the and the quality of
the SPC itself and there you have it the
Coty's bin three they are four they're
available for pre-order right now and
you can actually save $20 off of the
retail price by going to their website
through cat5 dot TV slash vim 3 and just
follow the prompts to either post on
twitter or facebook and when you do that
you're gonna get 20 20 bucks off I got
some extra screws here it's like IKEA
built this but everything's solid and
there's no no other screw holes who
knows alright so we got our power brick
there we go and let's plug it in and
when we come back folks it's good if I
can get this on round when we come back
I'm gonna fire up the kata
BIM three and we're gonna check out what
we can do with this little bad boy it's
a single board computer that boasts
itself as being powerful enough to be a
modest desktop stick around welcome back
today we are looking at the Coty's fin 3
the vim 3 is brand new not yet available
but it is available for pre-order you
can save 20 bucks on it by simply
following the prompts on their website
at cap 5 dot TV slash vim 3 but this is
not an advertisement this is a review
right and this is unbiased this is just
I want to see where we're at with
something like the Coty's vim 3 now
we're at this very very interesting
point here entering the third quarter of
2019 and and what I'm seeing is this
transition in single bore computing
we've been kind of moving toward it and
I had this this chat with Lukasz from
pine 64 when he was on the show we
talked about how we're really
progressing toward a point when single
board computing is going to be capable
of replacing the desktop not the big
powerful gaming computer we're not
talking about that okay we're talking
the average desktop computer that you
use just to be able to get online get on
to the canoe you know get on the
internet do your like everyday surfing
word-processing that kind of stuff right
and we're seeing that proven yeah yeah
well that too but we're seeing that
proven and now with the release of the
Raspberry Pi for I was a little bit
taken aback by the fact that they're
marketing it as a desktop replacement
what like be careful with our marketing
here because we do need to be very very
mindful that this isn't a single board
computer these are arm-based devices
they are not Intel or AMD they're not
like AMD 64 compiled architecture so
there are some little caveats when you
switch to arm because it's like that
it's this thing that's growing right but
we're now finally at that point when
somebody like Raspberry Pi can feel
confident to boost boast that this could
be used as a desktop computer but on the
same day that the Raspberry Pi 4 was
announced the vim 3 was also announced
now they had been leading up to it but
that was the day of the the drop like
here are the specs this thing is
astonishing so this also has the NPU so
that that's the neural processing unit
so think about AI that's going to the
the the vim 3 is capable of doing AI
tasks ok so this is a whole new era for
computing and it fits in a single-board
computer but with six cores four of
which run at 2.2 gigahertz okay two of
which run at 1.5 1.8 right I realize so
this is really really fast so now we're
at this point where okay we can probably
stick this on the back of a monitor or
turn this into a little computer do you
think we could should we try it yeah
I've got this actually connected so I've
got the Coty's vim 3 right here up and
running it's hard to get it into a shot
but I have the HDMI output from that
going into a KK SB 13 inch what is a
Raspberry Pi screen but of course it
will
with any HDMI device so it's perfect so
I'm gonna switch I've actually got it up
on my screen here and I'm using that as
my computer tonight just to see how it
performs I just want to say before I
switch over when the vim 3 arrived it
had Android Pi on it okay
it was it runs amazing it's like the
fastest set top Android device I've ever
seen but here's the other thing there
was no extra junk none there was no like
new interface or replaced in her face
and a whole bunch of propriety or
whatever stuff that the manufacturers
had thrown in there it was like the
cleanest most streamlined and Android
install that I'd seen it came
pre-installed but then I started playing
with it only two and I started
installing other os's ubuntu debian mems
linux everything else onto the vim 3
thinking oh yeah I can install Android
again and but Android hadn't yet been
released it came on the board but the
the image file hadn't been released so
that I could download it and reimage it
however but it is by the time you get
your vim 3 it will be available to you
so Lubuntu is available debian is
available arm being all that kind of
stuff MEMS Linux is available for it
right now but let's jump on and let's
see how it performs so this is Ubuntu
xfce for the for the vim 3 from Coty's
and immediately what I noticed and we've
looked at other SBC's before but I mean
the immediate feeling is that it
responds just like my computer like I
don't I don't feel any latency there at
all so here it is let's jump on the
Internet I've already got my browser
open there's what we were talking about
in the in the discord let's head on over
to pixels comm and let's get ourselves a
nice background wallpaper because that's
what I'm gonna want here so let's say
space background so here I am in
chromium this came pre-installed it
didn't have to do any fancy stuff to get
it all set up I kind of like that tree
sitting in the
oh yeah middle of the field there could
I could I use that as my desktop
wallpaper he's really responsive it
feels really responsive there's there's
there's that number responsiveness where
you do like benchmarks and you can look
at numbers and then there's that feeling
of when I click it responds when I click
it does stuff when I do stuff it just it
does it's it does what I'm expecting
this feels responsive so as I'm moving
around it just feels like what I would
expect let's go into okay show in folder
there we go right click on that let's
see and set as wallpaper how does that
look Sasha great beautiful okay one
thing that I have installed is the GNU
image manipulation program I just
installed that using apt look at how
fast this performs oh my gosh this is
bananas can I just remind you that was
that what you just saw is live on a
single board computer right here
this this big single board computers and
how fast they're getting up amazing to
be fair this is a 1920 by 12 78 so at
basically 1280 P image not a huge image
so that's that's to be fair I just
notice that but that is I mean it's
responsive right it feels good you can
see how like clicking around I'm just
not having there's no effort there okay
so happy with that gimp installed just
fine didn't have any problems the other
thing that I did install was super tux
cart because I just wanted to know like
would it handle games and I have to say
you know frame rate right now not gonna
cut it for gaming at least not 3d
rendered games that have shaders and
stuff like that it's just not not
practical
but it would I need a boots it runs it's
just the performance is too poor right
are we is this the two gig of a gig ram
version or the four gigs yeah I'm using
the basic which is two gigs of RAM and
16 gigs of emmc oh the pro has 32 gigs
of emmc and 4 gigs of ram ok ok so make
your choice and those are the two models
of the vim 3 get your questions in sash
is watching the discord in the meantime
one thing I love to check because it
often fails me on a single-board
computer is like how does YouTube
perform that's important to me because
that's just one of those things that you
know I'm gonna use on my computer just
for the sake of you know I need to own
the rights to it let's go to our website
which uses which uses YouTube
there we go also everything seems to run
just fine just like anything there's no
there's no gimmicks here like it just
just feels right okay so here's last
week's episode yeah it's playing let's
bring it up in YouTube
okay so I haven't installed anything
it's just doing its thing and working
just fine
so video works a little bit janky yeah
there's a couple of little blips here
and there let's go fullscreen see how it
how it operates about the same like it
doesn't it doesn't have a high frame
rate but it works it's not stuttering or
anything like that but that actually
doesn't look too bad all considering so
and video is a challenge for single
board computers in these types of
environments to be honest so and that's
because of things like 3d acceleration
and and the browser how it works on
YouTube so any other questions for us in
the chatroom both the Coty's vim three
at this point no but I have a question
yes well that heatsink be enough for
what it does like do you feel like you
would want to add more my hand is not a
thermal sensor okay but I'm just putting
my hand right on top of it
I'll put my hand on the bottom which is
the metal and it's hot yeah it's quite
hot my concern with the amount of heat
that I do feel is if I did an m2 and was
using passive cooling I may have
throttling on my file system so you
probably want to have some active
cooling at that point these things are
built to operate at a higher temperature
than like than what you would normally
have your computer running that because
they're built that's what they're built
for is these industrial purposes and but
it doesn't feel like it's not it's not
burning me it feels it feels warm but it
doesn't feel like kind of unsafe no no
no nothing like that no like I've got my
hand on it I can feel the heat like a
plate when you take it out of the
dishwasher kind of thing yeah perfect so
no moving parts when it's in the path
like when it's passive like this so it
doesn't make any noise there's nothing
to it
right you can well it's up and running
you can move it around no problems
is that sure yeah yeah just don't pull
the cables and everything so there's a
lot of stuff that you could do with this
I mean as I mentioned this is kind of it
feels high-end it feels like hey if
you're a serious maker and you want to
get into like take your game to the next
level it's got the GPIO it's got the the
AI chip it's got a much stronger SOC
it's got a lot of RAM it's got a lot of
emmc built in and it's also like keep in
mind the emmc is built-in so when you're
comparing pricing the Raspberry Pi Ford
and I'm only using the Raspberry Pi 4
because I know it's at the forefront of
everyone's mind we all are thinking of
it because it was just released it does
not come with any storage built in and
it doesn't even have the capability to
use emmc ok this has the storage built
in so when you compare the dollars think
about the fact that it comes with emmc
integrated into the circuit board plus
it's got that AI chip plus like it's
it's got some other fancy stuff yeah I'm
saying if you're running YouTube video
if you right-click on the video and then
stats for nerds stats for nerds is going
to show us some stuff we want to do that
just to see what what it tells us well
let's see let's go back to YouTube and
I'll do a search for category 5
technology TV
there we are we're live there's a
picture of us right now that's trippy
crazy noise should I click on that one
no all right let's click 2 weeks ago
when Jeff was here ok right click so can
I pause that and right click stats for
nerds what does it tell us ok 1216 by
684 it's dropping some frames what do
you guys get from that ok another test
is ctrl + does it work on this board and
it does that's important to me too so
you guys can probably see that now
there's my stats for nerds on the tube
of you let's let it play
so yeah it's dropping some frames for
sure now do keep in mind as well and I
think it is important to note that os's
and everything are still very very young
for the board I mean it was just
released on Monday right so it's like
things will progress as well and and
that's important to note but but I like
to be very transparent about the fact
that hey this is what a single board
computer is right now it's operating as
well as can be expected for a single
board computer and very very well at
that so yes I could probably use this as
I mean what can you use it for like on
display like this touch screen monitor
or something like that it would be
fantastic like you could use it easily
for you know kiosk sort of things I love
that that's what I mean like put it in
your kitchen and just let her literally
or when I was working at the clinic we
were thinking about going paperless
could you imagine if you had a
touchscreen equation where you're
filling out your health question whose
touch screens with her she really likes
touch screens folks somebody send her a
touch screen I do like that though I'm
gonna I actually downloaded a last
week's episode of category 5 technology
TV
and if I can find it here it's in videos
I want to see how the performance is
when I just double-click the category so
much more fullscreen in the default
player doesn't have it there we go
double click and there is Cody
pre-installed which I've never clicked
on and I'm afraid to but should we try
it yes I don't know what's gonna happen
if I do goddess is the login and
password just so you're aware didn't
actually go anywhere
that said Libra elec is available for
this board for the vim 3 press ENTER to
continue enter my password interesting
interesting
so grab whatever operating system is
gonna gonna do it for you yeah and give
it a go
anything else that you folks would like
to see in the chat I have I see that it
has the office suite integrated came
with it
LibreOffice again just look at the
performance and you just think that this
is a single board computer and it's
actually operating very very well like
the performance feels X it's just
exceptional and the board is really
really nice
leg in any way it doesn't feel like e at
all
it's Keeping Up with Robbie huh would
have no problem with Sasha hunt-and-peck
no you do better than that come on so
what does it come with on the this is
Ubuntu xfce just a couple of accessories
there games was empty but I installed
super technical cart just to test I've
installed GIMP but it came with Mirage
we've got chromium chromium
pre-installed and it is working it works
fairly well hex chat Thunderbird male
multimedia we do have Kodi which I'm not
sure if it does anything at this point
but as I say Libre elec is available for
you and we've got a couple of different
player things and volume control all
that kind of typical stuff our office
suite and then some system utilities
let's bring up H top and see how things
are running so there it is we have one
two three four five six cores and this
board has two gigs of RAM it's
registering as one point eight gigabytes
and we're using 356 megabytes
at idle load average of 1.2 - over the
past a couple of minutes there you go so
it looks really good I'm happy with it
get your $20 off folks again not an
advertisement but hey an encouragement
if you are interested in the vim 3 from
Coty's which I hope you are because it's
amazing I really like it I've always had
my eye on these the the vim 2 I mean the
aesthetically I think they're one of the
nicest looking boards they really are
good and to fire it up and realize hey
this is actually a really great board as
well but anyway get your 20 bucks off if
you like by going to cap 5 TV slash them
three and there is some information
there on how you can either tweet or
post on Facebook those are one of the
those are your two options folks so
you're gonna have to sign up for an
account for one of those while you're at
it follow us and we'll give you lots of
lots of likes that's right everything
else ok that's gonna give you 20 bucks
off of your new catus vim 3 so hey
cancel your account after you're done if
you
- you know if you just don't agree with
the terms and conditions of Twitter okay
we've got a head over to the newsroom
Sasha if you're ready for it I am
alright here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom Lenovo is shipping their 2019
ThinkPad P Series models pre-installed
with the boon to Linux dozens of drivers
blindly following a Google Maps detour
ended up stranded in the field with some
drivers stuck in deep mud a tiny
Raspberry Pi computer has been used to
steal data from NASA's Jet Propulsion
Laboratory and speaking of the Raspberry
Pi they finally released the PI 4 and
now you can hack NASA even faster these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere this is the category 5 dot TV
newsroom covering the week's top tech
space
Linux bias I'm Sasha Rickman in here at
the top series were following this week
Lenovo is shipping their to 2019
ThinkPad peace P series models
pre-installed with a boon to Linux
that's right it's possible to purchase
Lenovo's high-performance ThinkPad
systems with a boon to shipped from the
factory starting with this year's models
ThinkPads have often been the laptop of
choice for linux users as lenovo
historically does certify ThinkPad
models for linux use though prior to
this announcement buyers were stuck
paying the windows tax for unwanted
bundle license of Windows of Microsoft
Windows which many would remove anyway
application models can be configured
with a boon to 18 point o4 LTS and will
be available this month though not
offered as a preload Apple option the P
series is also certified for Red Hat
Enterprise Linux Lenovo announced 2019
models of the ThinkPad p73 ThinkPad p53
ThinkPad p53 s and P 43 s as well as the
ThinkPad p1 Gen 2 last week
powered by ninth generation intel core
cpus the mot then the new models
introduced oled displays on certain
units as well as X right Pantone Panton
Pantone factory color calibration which
is a significant bonus for content
creators and designers the P series
think pads are closer to a desktop
replacement than anything else as these
units come with more expandability
options than the T or X series and
higher performance Nvidia graphics
buyers can also upgrade to X on zeon
mobile CPU CPUs on the P series it is
yet to be seen if this option will be
extended to other ThinkPad models they
could get I was so excited about that I
could not talk you said X on Xeon I'm
excited to see Linux desktop available
on a commercial like a very good
commercial laptop yeah and we've seen it
happen before but as people
progressively get get used to that
availability maybe we'll start to see
more adoption and these days really
Linux is ready for mainstream the
desktop is ready for mainstream
especially if they let's say keep a good
relationship with steam and so on and so
forth
maybe you know not as much because then
you've got all your games and everything
else so that's the really the one
drawback if you switch to Linux is
losing access to your games well not if
you use steam so presumably that's not a
problem anymore that would be great and
Lenovo makes some good hardware and
those sound like sweet machines - I like
this story are you gonna buy one
probably last time when we did a news
story about VR what happened I bought a
VR VR what I have now it's horrible when
I get excited about a new story and then
it just gets in my brain and it
marinades and this is how we pay for the
show folks we just do news stories that
affiliate links bingo bango the next
story is about a Tesla not really good
dozens of drivers blindly following a
Google Maps detour ended up stranded in
a field with some drivers stuck in deep
mud the Colorado drivers earned a hard
lesson about technology after the Google
Maps the torah' led them astray one of
the drivers involved Connie Muncie's
reported that she was stuck in traffic
on her way to the Denver International
Airport so she turned on Google Maps to
see if there was an alternate route to
get her there the app suggested a route
that projected to save 20 minutes on her
commute but it didn't take long for her
to begin questioning the almighty
Google's wisdom as the road she was on
suddenly turned from pavement to dirt
which had become a muddy mess due to a
recent rainfall she said that at the
time she thought all these other cars in
front are in front of you so it must be
okay
soon though some of those drivers in
front of her began to get stuck in the
mud she went on
why did Google send us out there to
begin with it just didn't make any sense
there was no turning back once you were
there Monty said the road was clearly
private and not meant for regular
commuters but Google said that the road
was not marked as private on their
system jason'll uber a local traffic
reporter who is related to Monty's said
drivers shouldn't be so committed to
what their phones are telling them quote
Google Maps isn't perfect he said you
need to know where you're going
end quote and that's why he's sleeping
on the couch this week guys okay oh my
goodness the best seen from the office
ever was Michael Scott driving with dry
Dwight Schrute and the GPS was telling
him turn right turn right or whatever it
was and Michael's like freaking out he's
like okay then he turns right and he
just drives right into a lake the best
scene ever and it just totally reminds
me okay so I am NOT dumb I will say I am
NOT done but I have fully rely on my
Google Maps to the point where sometimes
I question myself like it says your
destination will be on the left and I
think there's nothing on the left I bet
you my destination is on the right
but I think I saw maybe I go further to
the left like it for a second like I
just trust so much in Google Maps and
it's just because they get me to the
right spot more often than not yeah but
I use it on the daily for my job because
I just sent into the community I'm given
an address put it in my google maps and
well BAM what if I hadn't end up yeah so
it's gotta be technology plus common
sense because there has to come a point
when the mud is getting thick when you
realize okay this is not right but as
she said like what would you do in that
moment you can't you can't pull a u-turn
on mud right like that's pretty
difficult when there's a hundred other
cars that are also following the same
directions and I can I understand
because I've been
whenever I Drive to Toronto I love
having a GPS I love it because it is
nutty down there and I'm such a
small-town boy when you see me driving
like I'm just when I get - yeah but I'm
a good driver but I would just get so
lost in those roads that just go every
which direction I love like Google Maps
tells you which lane you should be in
they sure take the middle lane and the
following yeah my GPS is Casa you are
going too fast oh really
oh yeah mike is not I'm like shut up man
I'm flowing with the traffic now you can
go in and amend and I haven't done it
but I know people who have and I really
should when I notice something wrong
when you notice that the destination is
on the wrong side of the street or oh
yes if it's taking you to the wrong
entrance you can so somebody just needs
to edit that road as private okay
if somebody's done that now right or
somebody edit it in the wrong direction
and it just slips oh maybe so but it
just is a collaboration of people that
are trying to get you to the best spot
and you know nobody intentionally puts
you in a muddy road and I'm sorry you
probably missed your flight
this is probably not a great news story
for you gets me wine and I I do feel bad
more than anything because you can you
can say oh well why didn't you stop or
why didn't like it I think it comes down
to that like if I was in Toronto and I
was listening to my GPS
I'm just do I'm just doing what it says
because otherwise I would be on the
wrong road to the wrong place
and it's really hard to get back once
you're on the wrong road so I listen and
I do what I'm told
we have gotten into it like slight
spousal disagreements in the car when
Dave says why are you going that way
much faster to go the other way I'm like
it's what Google said I just want to
listen to the Machine and he drives
motors his motorcycle so he's he's like
he just he knows exactly like he knows
every street and he knows directions
like with his eyes closed yeah
tell me where to go Google oh dear
a tiny Raspberry Pi computer has been
used to steal data from NASA's Jet
Propulsion Laboratory an audit report
revealed the gadget was used to take
about 500 megabytes of data it said two
of the files that were taken dealt with
the International transfer of restricted
military and space technology the
attacker who used the device to hack the
network went undetected for about 10
months the malicious hacker won access
to the Jet Propulsion lab internal
network via the raspberry pi by
hijacking its user account the report
said that although the PI had been
attached to the network by the employee
lacks controls over logging means that
NASA administrators did not know that it
was present this oversight left the
vulnerable device unmonitored on the
network allowing the attacker to take
control of it and use it to steal data
once the attacker had won access they
then moved around the internal network
by taking advantage of weak internal
security controls that should have made
it impossible to jump between different
departmental systems the attacker has
not been identified
or caught the stolen data came from 23
files but little detail was given about
the type of information that went astray
the audit process revealed several other
devices on the JPL network that system
administrators did not know about none
of these other devices was believed to
be malicious not scary so just an
employee plugged it in and while an
employee plugged in a Raspberry Pi which
no doubt had the default username and
password most likely like PI raspberry
right you don't necessarily think about
it on an internal land as soon as it's
accessible well now you're done and it's
not a Raspberry Pi thing this is the the
very problem with ransomware these days
and things like that because people have
computers that are unprotected on their
network and if a hacker can get access
to one of them now they have access to
everything in this case they realize hey
I'm into now
I'm gonna steal a bunch of data well
they could have encrypted all their
files and shut down the space program
they could have done that so that you
know there's all kinds of it's not a
raspberry pie issue
it's just hey a raspberry pie is very
convenient little device you could hide
it anywhere right I'm sure relax
security that's what I was gonna say I'm
shocked that they have such lack
security I mean even ESET endpoints
Security Center and ESET Security
Management Center keep changing the
acronyms ESET security Management Center
is like the latest version of ESET
Remote Administrator version 7 it has
what's called a rogue detector built-in
and it's free to download the the
Management Center if you don't have a
license than you can't deploy agents but
or you can't deploy the anti-malware and
things like that but the rogue detector
would still work right and the rogue
detector will tell you you can set it up
so that the administrator of the network
gets an email if anyone plugs in a
computer because if you're relying on
like a DHCP pool like that's no good so
does NASA just not know to do that
presumably that seems silly yeah that's
weird like there's a simple fix to this
I think super simple mmhmm right call
Robbie yeah that's what I just one way
yeah Wow I'd be slapping them and say
look what do you they're lucky they're
really lucky they didn't get hit with
ransomware there are cities right now
that are without computers because
ransomware right 23 other devices that
obviously that weren't malicious sure
right somebody brings a device from home
and plugs it in or puts it on the Wi-Fi
and all of a sudden it's a new device
but as I say like if you're watching the
DHCP pool to see what IP address is
spawn up and what MAC addresses are
connected to your network
that's not viable what if someone sets a
static IP address outside of the pool or
on a different block like different
subnet well the you wouldn't even know
so a rogue detector will actually tell
them if theirs
devices on the network that they don't
know about which is very very important
that's like rudimentary I'm talking
that's free so NASA call Ravi just do
some like and subscribe give us a thumbs
up if you work for NASA and speaking of
the Raspberry Pi they finally released
the PI for and now you can have NASA
even faster the Raspberry Pi 4 has
arrived and you can finally get a P up
high with more no end of the
teleprompter does get slightly cut off I
did not see and PI somehow became P the
story is clearly a better as very PI
clearly sorry I didn't mean to interrupt
go ahead yeah and you can finally get a
PI more than one gigabyte ram at the
heart of the Raspberry Pi 4 is a 64-bit
quad-core arm cortex a 72 CPU running at
1.5 gigahertz it's paired with the
selection of memory options one gigabyte
to you bite or 4 gigabyte RAM the new
processor when paired with 4 gigabytes
ram is advertised as being able to
deliver a desktop like experience cpu
heavy tasks like game emulation we'll
definitely see some notable perform
improvements on the new chip versus the
older slower ones and earlier models but
this still leaves the Raspberry Pi with
less impressive specs then even last
year's releases from pine 64 or Odroid
the PI 4 does have 2 micro HDMI ports
though so if you'd like you can connect
up to two 4k displays with a single
Raspberry Pi 4 device this is made
possible courtesy of an improved video
core 6 GPU the GPU can also handle h.265
4k P 60 hardware decoding
that should help improve video playback
on Plex PI systems we're h.265 would
previously cause excessive stuttering
the new Raspberry Pi for finally
introduces true Gigabit Ethernet to the
Raspberry Pi lineup rather than that USB
piggybacked gig controller that only
gave us a third of the speed there's
still no emmc support which is
disappointing but all in all for $55 us
for just for the 4 gigabyte board alone
the new PI 4 is a big upgrade over
previous models at a reasonable price
point with specs that bring the PI a
little more in line with offerings from
other SBC manufacturers we've been
waiting so long for this and it's
finally here it is actually you know
it's pretty impressive for a PI like I'm
it's it's blowing away the older PI's
for sure yes and I think retropie needs
a little upgrade and by that I mean we
need to upgrade our systems that's gonna
be awesome
I think Raspberry Pi for for for
retropie this would be excellent yeah
screamin mmm-hmm I'm not sure if the
four gig is available yet I haven't been
able to find it oh it is yeah because
Marsh man in our community received his
here in Canada though we always have
this with raspberry pi like it's
available in the UK the u.s. sees it
next and then Canada start well we start
seeing them on Amazon for inflated
prices by third-party sellers and
finally at two years later we start to
be able to receive them directly from
Kanak it and stuff like that hopefully
Kanaka will be on the ball this time
around with the pi/4 cuz I'd really like
to be able to get my hands on like a
four gig model and put it through its
paces and see how it performs okay I'll
score it I will absolutely and I have
and I and I have giggle score the
because it's MEMS Linux is available for
the PI 400 or p4 depending on which side
of the table your honor
and so if we get those stats and is
performing very very well it's probably
the number one board right now as far as
like giggle value and and the actual
performance ratio it's it's really doing
well which is great it really is yeah
I'm gonna take a real quick look at what
coin gecko shows us about the
cryptocurrency market you'll remember
that last week we had a big interview
and so we were unable to fit in the
market report but here we are so this is
two weeks later these are how the
numbers have changed over the course of
two weeks as opposed to our regular one
week gap so Bitcoin we've seen that go
up a couple of grand Sasha so if you
invested in it two weeks ago it's now it
is now trading at eleven thousand three
hundred and ninety dollars and eighty
eight cents per Bitcoin Facebook Libre
we still do not see it on the exchange
so it's still valued at zero
litecoin and I should say Facebook Libre
Libre we are monitoring so that when it
does hit we're gonna be the first to
know you're gonna be the first to know
litecoin is is sitting at 118 dollars
and 58 cents US dollars and that's a
loss of about ten dollars a week over
the past two weeks
if theorem is up to 294 26 nearing that
three hundred dollar threshold gaining
twenty six dollars and seventeen cents
in two weeks
monaro its Fiat value right now is
eighty eight dollars and twelve cents
losing eleven dollars and sixty eight
cents over the past couple of weeks
torque and and turtle coin both sitting
about where they were because they're so
tiny we should start doing like how much
ten thousand turtle coin are worth
that's how we should like remember
listen the price is right they have like
those little games like that we need to
have like what's that for turtle point
with a turtle yeah yeah and and if we
multiply it by like 10,000 then we could
all of a sudden turtle coins worth four
dollars and people be like would would
that'd be mind-blowing I have a million
turtle coin you know maybe Wow
for a million dollars to a torque
that 1.13 that's a gain of point
eighteen ten thousandths of a cent
and one point one three ten thousandths
of a cent per coin turtle coin also not
quite as valuable as a Bitcoin right now
zero point nine five ten thousandth of a
cent not even a ten thousandth of a cent
that is but it's consistent exact it is
consistently but that means it's easy to
mine it's still easy to mine and if it's
easy to mine you can have lots of them
right and when the supply goes down the
value goes up that's the presumption yes
maybe that will happen maybe it won't so
just when you buy crypto or when you
mine crypto you just have to make sure
that what you're spending on it is the
same amount that you could spend on
coffee in the day in such a way that and
what I mean by that is when you drink a
coffee you're not getting that money
back don't plan to get that money back
just it's something fun to try and if
you do get that money back ten thousand
fold then fantastic
send us a TV and our community of
viewers for submitting stories ass this
week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sacha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson thanks for being here
this week we've got to take a really
quick break we'll be right back
welcome back this is category five
technology TV 615 weeks of this stuff
and it's time to replace the old girl
the computer that we use to broadcast
the show each and every week yes she's
old and faithful she's treated us well
hi I built it
at the beginning of season five or I
guess you would say the end of season
four so if they consider I built this at
the at the beginning of season five and
we are now part way through season
twelve and it's given up the it's giving
up the ghost and hasn't given up the
ghost past tense it's failing us yes and
so I've mentioned on the show that we've
needed to raise the funds to be able to
pull this all together and I just I'm so
thrilled and so thankful to be able to
announce that we now have all of the
components to do the build so it's all
here I've unboxed everything as far as
like knowing what was in the packaging
that was shipped to us having to open
the product itself because we're gonna
do that on the air but do keep in mind
if you are keen on seeing that build
take place make sure you sign up as a
patron and that is a way to support the
show but it's it's affordable like as
little as just a dollar a month you'd be
supporting us but at the same time
gaining accents access to additional
content that you wouldn't normally see
on the show now we are gonna have a
feature where you're gonna see the build
on category five technology TV without
being a patron or anything but if you
want to follow along because it's going
to be a very long process putting it
together probably several episodes that
you'll be able to enjoy that are not
going to be broadcast elsewhere that's a
way that you can get those so thank you
to everybody who has contributed if you
donated in some way and you are not
patron maybe you don't want to be a
patron for some reason and you're
donating through PayPal I'm perfectly
willing to just send you private links
so like it's not it's not an exclusive
club or anything like that
understand patreon just simply makes it
really easy for us to be able to have a
means of giving extra content to those
who support us because it is like an
opt-in thing but if you've contributed
in some other way I'm happy to hook you
up directly so just send me an email or
something like that that would be
appreciated and that's gonna be a lot of
fun I can't wait to put it together
we've got an i 999 hundred k we have an
unbelievable setup we've got six
terabytes of nvme storage we have 64
gigabytes of 32 hundred megahertz ram
from kingston technology we have video
card and boy do we have a video card a
GPU
gtx 6000 olds GTX GTX r-tx 6000 Quattro
card that was donated as well we've got
all the parts to put it all together
we've got a beautiful motherboard it's
an aorist what is it called a horas
master from gigabyte and so hey this is
gonna be an amazing build and so when I
even finish putting that together it's
gonna be the broadcast server and that's
how we're going to be doing the show so
thank you very very much for supporting
us and helping us to be able to make
that build a reality
we are volunteers here at the show and
that is something that we needed to do
and we're doing it so thank you
everybody and let's let's go into Season
13 when it comes this October it's not
that far off it's kind of crazy to think
that we're partway into July now and
October is not very far really when it's
all said and done and that season 13 the
lucky season 13 should we jump right to
season 14 like an elevator or call it
like 12 B season 12 I like it won't be
that's great but thank you everybody for
being patrons for supporting us in any
way that you've been able to we
appreciate that very much we are on
Twitter at category-five TV or you can
follow me personally at Robbie Ferguson
I promise I will entertain you know if
you are a Norval fan you will love my
feed if you are a geek in any way you'll
love my feet if you love single-board
computers you'll love my feed if you
love barbecue you will love my feet also
don't forget you can follow us on
YouTube that should be pretty obvious
they can get category 5 technology TV on
YouTube but also we have one called
Linux tech show and I encourage you to
also subscribe to that see how I did
that because it's edited down snippets
of category-five technology TV so you
can just catch the 5 10 15 minute clip
instead of having to watch the whole
hour where Robbie goes on and on about
nerdy things we cut out all of that
banter you can also watch this on Plex
and Cody you'll find us get onto our
website category 5 dot TV to pull it all
together we've got our SS feeds and
everything else so you can find those
there thanks for watching everybody and
I look forward to seeing you again next
week when a Marid ride is gonna be here
in the studio making the trek up and
across the border and gonna be talking
with us about kind of the future of
single-board computing in the enterprise
environment because we're seeing that
real shift I talked about the shift to
the desktop that's happening that's
starting to happen but we're also in
enterprise seeing a shift in the data
center we're seeing a shift in the
server room and and that is really
starting to happen we're gonna be
talking about what we can expect over
the next little while and we've got a
lot to talk about
I mean someone like beau from marriage
roid it's it's gonna be such an honor
and a pleasure to have him here and
and that's gonna be a great show don't
ya so take care of buddy see ya
[Applause]
