and there is areas did I make it did I
hit the coffee break today 40 seconds to
spare
what you did welcome to the coffee break
guys I kind of need coffee everybody
doing well yeah good and today of course
is the eleven of May 2020 because after
50 days of consecutive coffee breaks we
finally missed one yesterday yesterday
there was no coffee break so what
happened is that well it was Sunday
morning and as you may or may not know
pastor gen wagger who is who you may
remember knew every day
first three seasons she does her church
services at the studio so I was in the
middle of that and my name server went
off telling me that the category five
main web server was offline so of course
that's at the colocation facility and so
I'm like okay well I can't leave in the
middle of their church service so I
waited just until they left and then I
zipped over to the colocation facility
and it turns out it was just the power
the power supply was dead so single
point of failure yay and the server that
can have a two trillion FPS units no
it's it's actually a neat little thing
it's a it's a it's called a fiblet
- so it's a little microcomputer and it
runs our website and our RSS feeds and
everything else it's a powerful little
beast like 16 gigs of ram and but it
does just have a single 12-volt power
supply so I thought maybe I could take
two 12-volt power supplies and put them
in a parallel circuit so that if one
fails the other one will pick up the
slack I thought maybe that would be a
good idea just make little diodes you
need those in between I'm stuffed
1john it
the other one you need to set the doors
don't one bring the bow into the other
he says you need diodes Robbie to stop
power from leaking from one power supply
to the other so make sure yeah make sure
you put diodes in place they designed to
only let power flow in one direction
shortly
Oh clever oh okay so that will prevent
it from feeding back to the America
thanks guys it should be a pretty pretty
simple circuit to do something like that
although I mean it's been running on
this thing for five years I'd say and
this is the first time the power supply
has ever died so and we were only down
for an hour so but it was right at that
so whatever yeah well on Sunday so after
they leave it's like you know quarter to
noon and then I do the coffee break from
noon until 12:30 that's why I'm at the
studio on Sundays right now but of
course as soon as they left I got in the
van and headed to the collocation so and
I was at the server at at 12 o'clock I
was thinking to myself and I finally
noticed the Twitter posting that you did
in front of the collocation rack is
offline it's completely missing Iraq
suave jokey joke leaders when they got a
low conduction they think of that when
they do occur and I reject that boy told
GQ talked about putting whatever role he
said it was coffee shop legal bow what
you want yeah I'll look it up Peter I
appreciate the I appreciate the tip but
I will use the diode as my Google search
query and I'm sure I'll find what I'm
looking for is does he's saying he's
saying there's a specific type of diode
called a Schottky
SCH OTT Katie
why I believe that tomorrow right yeah
so make sure you make sure you get those
type of dye okay I can't wait until say
L opens up again we have a like a local
old-school RadioShack style door perfect
you can yeah
what I told you I didn't I didn't catch
you there Peter this thing to do Peter
is just send Robbie an email with the
details and that'll help him understand
a lot better than if you do this over
voice yeah yeah so how do you finally
flicks now and has vp9 has electron kind
of magical hearing sorry Lance man I'll
get I'll get there yeah okay so so what
did i do so so when I came in the power
on the server was off so I figured it's
either the entire thing has exploded
internally or the power supply so hey
let's start with the power supply so
unplug that took it down to the
workbench and hooked a multimeter up to
it and I was getting 8 volt consistently
looked at the power supply and it says
it's supposed to be feeding 12 so I'm
okay not right so I grabbed we've got a
good supply of power supply so I grabbed
another 12 volt preamp adapter and
checked it and I was getting a good 12
volts so plugged it in and fired her up
came back online
yeah I had that happen to me 10 years
ago maybe more my ADSL modem it turned
out to be the DSL modem and I came home
afterward after church and noticed that
my my entire network no computer had
access to anything and I figured out
that it was my gateway computer it looks
like it had died
so I rebooted it and I still couldn't
collect no datp it had a static IP and
all my assets that economy and have
guests today need ATP but then I screen
from one of my that system no show not
it was if it was even online and
connected to the internet with a very
slower speed and then if I figure out
that it was the DSL and noise and and it
it lost it lost connection with my local
local area network we did not lose
correction to the SM or M for some
reason so so b1 bill I can tell you what
happened there probably your DNS went
down and if not if not that then
probably if your router was the gateway
oh wait you said the DSL modem yeah
I'm thinking the Gateway ordered or the
DNS went down or something and stop that
can stop each of your computers on your
local network from talking to each other
could I have a switch had a switch that
was still powered on so my computer had
internal access to each other big static
IP they had not access to the Gateway
system okay and and as soon as I
unplugged the DSL modem all access to my
gateway in the computer it was was was
up again only by
unplugging the DSL modem trainer yeah
switchable five volts so I and I use
that until a switch is PR year later any
better now a billionaire Robbie will say
it comes in gods Peter I'm sure that got
you started did you get that one yeah we
went that one yet what's sorry my
computer got restarts or do remember
that I'll talk about God resulted I
think your name I would informations I
think that that you've got three wait
somewhere email that's what we thought
would be in is Omni a data approach
where they have replicated their patents
where they should have done in the
nineteen eighty twenty three that they
go sent it to you they know saying up
any information I I'm sure that my voice
so very good today and I will say
jewelry server and Eva would enjoy a
little gold and information about
chocolates
no no tree go out I was good leader
boy now she lives physically I was a
very no tree I'm not making it I'm not
able to make you out Peter I don't re oh
yeah I am go hidden in the mail Peter
and I think Robo you'll make more sense
about what you do I will read it aloud
on tomorrow's coffee break there's no
there's no point doing this over voice
our unit review that's just not coming
true I'll use my best radio voice and
and Peter at that moment if you could if
you get to sit back in the frame and
move your mouth and
[Laughter]
they this weekend which no no soul boo I
didn't watch a video although I did see
some YouTube videos about this
no does anybody remember gopher
Gover yes yeah you're too young for this
you wouldn't you wouldn't remember this
give me a hint what what is it is it a
proxy over go for protocol you know it
is a service and I can't remember it it
does the throat so boo you got it it
predates web browsers it was it was
originally built by the University of
Minnesota as a as a way to disseminate
information over the Internet originally
it was supposed to be campus-wide but it
very soon exploded but I've been trying
to understand that see the thing is that
you know there's a few people who are
frustrated about how you know various
corporations have taken over websites
you know the big four you know Microsoft
Google Amazon you know all that and
pretty much you can't touch your website
unless they put it up there we're not
only web browsing but ads and all the
rest of it it's just very very small
there's a very very small bunch of folks
and I do say small because it doesn't
really look like it's taking any
traction but gopher is a much simpler
text only way of disseminating
information it was that was how it was
way back in the in the old man old days
back in the seventies eighties up until
the early 90s like it sort of died but
they may yet be so you know a bit of a
resurgence of it I'm curious to see if
anybody even remembers gopher
it'll be our next our next feature it
reminds me of like television back in in
those early days what
a TV no no when they would show the
Internet and and it was like a
text-based brochure look at you look at
X file there's no politics
Oh telly ticks on the tee page remember
this yeah yeah it had still had you
could configure proxy yeah even even the
modern browsers Firefox and I think see
my key is the email and I think that's
the browser but certainly Mets get
Netscape Navigator had it but they had
actually recently they've actually
recently as in a few years ago stopped
all all access to go for they don't
allow it anymore there's a pretty good
Wikipedia article about it yes there is
and a few and if you were starting up
but very notably University of Minnesota
have actually shut down their Google
server and I beat I've been reading up
on it because I'm trying to figure out
what was the what was the be what's the
attraction of gopher even now and I
haven't haven't quite figured that out
yet I certainly get no ads for sure and
I said it's gonna be it's gonna be a
much much simpler interface and I'm and
there's not much options in terms of how
you format up your pages
it's basically there's text on the
screen or there's a directory or there's
a file you can download or read if it's
like lightning on today's servers well
absolutely
oh oh I did that I get that for sure the
biggest drawback that I can think of at
the moment is that there is no full-text
searching like there is with dr. Kowal
google or whatever right right they did
have
engines T Veronica Jughead
they were they were search engines but
they only searched the title of the
document or the what they call my
selector they never they don't actually
search the entire text of the document
search across files they could search
across multiple servers and files
absolutely but the search results they
returned were only these search was that
there any terms that were in the title
of the document not the actual body of
the document okay so if you have a if
you had a dissertation or something that
went into all kinds of details about
whatever the subject was you could not
search for that by anything that was
inside the document you can only search
for it by what was on the title so you
had to hope that the title was was
descriptive as possible yeah so be
really good at reading cater well yeah
you know these days you could probably
have a go at writing a full text search
engine and yeah but but you know
question is would you put any effort
into something like that if there was
any kind of traction on going for and
I'm just not I'm not sure it's new yeah
I'm not sure it's worth spending the
time on it would it be would it be so
lightweight though that you could set up
like a raspberry pie absolutely yeah
thinking like like that's exactly what
I'm thinking of doing I've got to speak
or on my modem I'm thinking of just
chucking a gopher server up on the
interwebs just literally pointing it
directly into the into the router 15 at
stumble across it was and still is the
oldest web server still running it was
someone he works at Dutch so he and a
few colleagues have a rack in their
office that they can do put in what they
want so he mounted
in that wreck myself on all the 286
computers and here 20 megahertz which is
down step down to 18 in order to be
stable and he installed an MINIX on him
on it and and it has a webpage and it's
it he he won an award many years ago for
the most obsolete no so so I imagine the
Gopher protocol is excellent for old
hardware absolutely right it's true the
Gopher protocol is all text now granted
you can download binary file so there's
nothing stopping you downloading gif
files or PNG files or or binaries you
know like executables or tar files or
zip files or anything like that you can
absolutely absolutely do that
there's your use case scenario right
there the dark web protocol that used in
in the late sixties of it was surfaced
as part of the lawsuit in their 2000
about the Linux said code and so on and
we all there were various parts and as
part of the oh that a video surfaced
where the very first use and over Mouse
where they were browsing the arid orphan
at the time I wondering I'm wondering if
the Gopher was one of the protocols that
they used to demonstrate that it's
entirely possible so
because people forget that that there
are a lot of services and protocols that
run on the internet the World Wide Web
does not equal to the Internet there are
a whole bunch other services that run on
on the internet that are not world wide
web it just happens that world wide web
picked up traction and and became
dominant
yes okay well yeah just like who knows
what's actually running through these
cables oh just just fire up why I shock
and you'll find out real quick 1988 and
lance fan you've got the win with the
wikipedia page up don't you you you said
you found it on Wikipedia
did it say I don't he's not answering
Lance man I'm sorry what I was just
asking you've heard it up on Wikipedia
don't you what was the what when did
Archie I mean when did Gopher start I
want to say early eighties it says it's
a protocol communications protocol
designed for distributing searching and
retrieving documents yeah it says that
it gave way to HTTP it was invented by a
team led by Mark Pema Cahill at the
University of Minnesota its text menu
interfaces well-suited to computing
environments that rely heavily on remote
text-oriented computer terminals which
were still common at the time of its
creation in 1991 ok ok
early 1991 Wow that was that was before
you know I mean the internet had had
started but it was a it was about the
same time as when the World Wide Web
really started eating it started this
day we're head-to-head yep
they were head-to-head mm-hmm so
hard to believe that very internet only
that old and we're looking a mattress
pelvis of it I know I know see you're
too young grubby to knows no I'm not I
ran I ran a BBS for years man oh okay it
was a telegin guy and then later went
into you know one Stella guard was you
know considered obsolete I started
working with some of the more graphical
stuff Wow still running
oh yeah till are like remember like that
you'd I'd like to try it into yeah yeah
okay go for would be perfect for that
because it's pure text that's very
little in the way yeah very little in
the way of graphics baby SS that we're
all text yeah everything yeah everything
on my my BBFS was all text-based
although are like we'd have door games
and things like that that we're all like
hi ASCII characters and you know you
you'd play like an RPG where you're just
like this little stick man made of oh
yeah salute little text-based but we
made it work the largest BBS network
that was the largest is still running I
don't have yeah it's still yeah is it
really I imagine so I'm I don't know
still up yes and they were the original
bringers of the email that was inter BBS
compatible so so you could get on to my
BBS and send an email and then it would
dial out to fight on that after you
disconnect and it would send your email
to whichever node it is that yeah
remember nodes variant and many ODS
networks ended up as a as a many of
their Lord of the ISP that we had ISP
styles that we have today and they
merged into that yeah prodigy and
although I learned most of the history
of a BBS s I learned about
when Jason Scott he's one of the people
behind the archive he made a documentary
in the late 2000 about the BBS and the
early years it's a two-part documentary
that is available on the DMS and is also
legally available on YouTube for
everyone to use so I urge everyone to
watch that BBS the documentary is EB Act
the documentary nice yeah and one of the
in the law steps lost the lost part was
history about the compression it was a
race about creating and compressed a
software and one of the most popular
software was actually pirated by one by
a man by someone they DP DP kiseop Jules
yeah yeah yeah and so I didn't know that
until I watch that documentary so yeah
we take for granted thinking that zip
format is non proprietary and you know
it's available everywhere but note that
the proprietary tech yeah reverse
engineered by how many people huh that's
cool well that takes me back those were
the days weren't they Robi oh yeah back
when I was a lad back when we had to
make shift everything like everything
was you don't want compression it's like
we were trying to figure out ways to get
our our door games to work on like
hundred baud modem well sure because you
know you didn't want to have lag if you
will slow down and things like that and
then having like give me up and there's
15 phone lines coming into the house but
more people gave me a modem I had it as
just reasons it was an older to 2400
baud modem and it had a switch where you
six down - yeah I had I had an old 300
baud modem it was because it was in
Australia it was ccitt not bel standard
so it used a different set of tones than
what American modems did so if I if I
were prepared to pay like a dollar a
minute to make an international call to
it to a yes we'd not connect but I still
got charged my dollar a minute for
trying but it had two switches it had
original it had originated and answer
switch so the tones would flip if you
wanted somebody to call you you flip on
answer and then when they called you
would then you know you would then flip
the switch - to bring them out on my
line so two switches wanted to bring a
modem on line one for answer one for
Regina flick between the two so that was
the horribly I think mine still has some
old telephone equipment the old modem
where you put the receiver in and I I
used Texas on company serve back then
with a I don't remember if it was with
the 300 baud modem or not but I think
I'd upgraded to a 9600 baud at that
point it might have been 1200 board and
I'm just exaggerating because that
reminds me of one or the air
possibilities that I remember that the
most IT file had in it had something
called the Microsoft Network I'm
wondering if any one of you used it no
no i mean i i i i lead with windows back
in Australia and I mean the fact is
Windows is Windows it's peer but it has
been but
yeah I mean I was I was missing with
slack we're in those things
and I was I was trying to get Linux up
and running even even back then
Microsoft DOS ms-dos yeah yeah he missed
us and dr-dos absolutely but yeah I
stayed on that that CPM machine that I
showed off a few weeks ago now that was
my main machine for from any - that was
no I didn't see that one oh I have to go
back yeah before you started with the
slack where did you ever use UNIX no
only ever used Linux because it was too
expensive to to actually purchase any
copy of you know there wasn't a single
user license okay
all right take it easy see tomorrow
thank you Ron enjoy well oh wow he's
gone bang just like that
