covering the week stop next door it's
like Linux bias cybersecurity
researchers today uncovered a new highly
severe Hardware vulnerability residing
in the widely used Wi-Fi chips
manufactured by Broadcom and Cypress
apparently they power over a billion
devices including smartphones tablets
laptops routers and IOT gadgets dubbed
crook kr0 0k the flock had let nearby
remote attackers intercept and decrypt
some wireless network packets
transmitted over the air by a vulnerable
device the attacker doesn't need to be
connected to the victims wireless
network and the flaw works against
vulnerable devices using wpa2 personal
or wpa2 Enterprise protocols with AES
CCMP encryption ESET researchers said
quote our tests confirmed some client
devices by Amazon echo Kindle Apple the
iPhone iPad MacBook Google's Nexus
device Samsung's Galaxy devices
raspberry PI's PI 3 and show meas read
me as well as some access points by a
soos and Huawei were vulnerable to crook
now the attack relies on the fact that
when a device suddenly gets disconnected
from the wireless network the Wi-Fi chip
clears the session key in the memory and
it sets it to zero but see the chip
inadvertently transmits all data frames
left in the buffer with an all Z with an
all zero encryption key even after the
disassociation so it's actually pushing
out that data without encryption
so therefore of course an attacker in a
near proximity to vulnerable devices can
use the flaw to repeat a repeatedly
trigger disassociation by sending D
authentication packets over-the-air to
capture more data frames quote
potentially containing sensitive data
including DNS ARP ICMP HTTP TCP and TLS
packets basically it's like a
man-in-the-middle without actually
having to be in the middle
besides this since the flaw also affects
chips embedded into wireless routers the
issue also makes it possible for
attackers to intercept and decrypt
network traffic transmitted from
connected devices that are not
vulnerable to crook either attached or
using different Wi-Fi chips so consider
that if you are connecting to a Wi-Fi
hotspot whose hotspot is vulnerable you
are susceptible to crook
Apple has already released patches for
its users some should have issued
advisories or security patches at the
time of the publication and other
vendors are still testing the issue
against their devices watch for patch
for patches to mitigate this problem via
software or firmware updates for your
device
[Music]
