when we clean out our computer or other
electronics we tend to turn to what Jeff
any guesses a can of compressed air
compressed air yeah a can of compressed
air right we've all been there anybody
who's worked on computers this is kind
of what we're used to using and go to
yeah the fact is is that you don't even
think twice this is kind of what you go
and grab but here's the thing what do
you see danger danger keep out of reach
of children extremely flammable yeah
there's a whole bunch of warning signs
all those are the things and sometimes
when you're working on you cleaning your
computer out or something like that it
can actually squirt like a moisture the
weird watery things yeah yeah which to
me like I don't particularly want that
getting into my computer and as it turns
out this is not actually full of
compressed air at all oh it's like
flammable gases and a mix of all kinds
of chemicals and everything else yeah oh
I'm completely serious here Jeff
so John Shearer set out to provide an
alternative okay and John is joining us
here to talk about his Canlis air
product John thank you so much for being
here on the show with us this week
you're welcome I appreciate you can you
tell us a little bit about yourself
right out the gate just I'd love to know
a little bit about your backstory and
where you come from and how you found
yourself developing a product as an
alternative to this canned compressed
air well well I talk computers for with
video professor for 20 years and I did
that and got out of that and a guy came
to me with an idea long story short it's
Canlis there is the idea
I took the product and redesigned it
re-engineered it and it is what it is
today it's what I believe you have in
your hand problem I'm gonna grab it here
for for us John so here it is
this is the Canlis air system I've got
the X 3 hurricane thank you very much
John for sending that to us yes that's
right and so what I want to show you is
that the footprint between a can of
canned compressed air and the Canlis air
is roughly the same so on a shelf this
is virtually the same but when I think
about like what I want to what I want to
use if I'm environmentally conscious is
something like a compressor right right
which takes up a massive amount of space
compared to something like this or this
why does it really matter and and maybe
before I even ask that question John I
think I mentioned at the top of our
discussion here as a computer geek
myself as a computer user and a
technician I'm always using this kind of
thing that the compressed the
traditional compressed air and I never
think twice about it ok
so consider that like that's readily
available I can pick that up at any
ready shop and any computer shop is
selling that and as a computer guy I
have never thought twice about it and
then along comes Canlis air system and
starts to make me think well maybe I
should be thinking about the
environmental impact can you tell us a
little bit about what is dangerous about
these like compressed air dusters and
and and how the products differ well
what you have is a bomb actually in your
hand I mean literally yeah when they're
that can if that was exposed to we're in
Arizona if that was left in your car in
the summer for an hour or two it would
explode it's it's very dangerous the the
thing that you in getting our product
you must have realized you must see that
that our product can do every canned air
could do it it runs for a long time
mm-hmm it doesn't freeze up because that
can of canned air has dangerous
chemicals in it and if
did you use canned air on your camera
lenses yeah I've used it on camera
lenses on computer keyboards on servers
on the inside outside everything yeah I
hope that you won't use canned air
anymore
because one of the worst things to use
canned air on camera lenses you could
ruin the lens really because you know
how candy or sometimes spits out liquid
yeah that's a concern for me on the
inside of a computer or something I
think about yes if it gets well of it
for sure if it gets on a camera lens
it'll ruin Wow it'll ruin a camera lens
what we have a lot of camera shops a lot
of camera people buying our products
because it's safe yeah it's just blowing
air it's just you know air coming out of
here
and you can turn it upside down or
sideways it doesn't matter not if you
have you ever turned the can deer upside
down uh-huh that's when the liquid comes
out the liquid comes out you're correct
yeah and so and and it freezes up you
know that you that can after a while
gets very cold yeah what causes that
John that's the chemicals in there and
turning it upside down if you sprayed it
on you can get frostbite from if you
turned it upside down and sprayed it on
your skin for a little bit you can get
frostbite
so there's many reasons that I developed
this product I mean there's the green
aspect there's a safety aspect for sure
and people didn't have a choice
they they had no choice and so that's
why this got developed and and I made it
Y heard you mention about the size the
same size of canned air that's what we
did we had the engineers polled canned
air in their hand and then design this
and it's designed for a woman's hand too
it can a woman can hold this very
comfortably and use it how's that feel
faster feels good I feel all right oh
yeah there you go yeah we had women that
actually test it and pull the trigger on
it it's easy
yeah and this last as you know it lasts
about a good solid 15 to 20 minutes if
you pull the trigger and let it run yeah
it'll run that long that's awesome you
can recharge it 500 times Wow so one
charge of this is equal to I don't know
five or six cans of can deer just watch
alright alright
that's incredible this unit this unit is
equivalent to a minimum of a thousand
cans of canned air okay well that is at
least a week of compressed air for me
John at least that that's a big amount
of money I don't know what you pay for
Korean deer but probably somewhere
between five and ten now yeah there are
like eight bucks a can like this that
times a thousand that's $8,000 true so
it's it gets very big for the homeowner
it's you know a homeowner may use a can
every month or every few months or
whatever it is yeah but a business burns
through them they burn through sure what
we had happened we've had corporate
america's is the ones that discovered us
and they use this we had a company that
has bought this product from us since we
started
they bought about eight thousand of
these units so far they use them between
cash registers ATM machines parking
meters computers use it for every Oh
fire alarm people professionals Oh
industrial fire alarm make sense
they use these okay John can I ask so
these these guys here so if this is if
this is really gonna do say a thousand
cans of compressed air for me
what is the again I've never really
thought about this okay
what's the environmental impact of the
traditional like blow-off compressed air
what kind of impact are we having on
landfills the chemicals all of those
kinds of thing
you must know the stats being in the
industry ah the environmental impact I
used to have all the numbers I used to
know all the the major impact that it
has but I could let me tell you this
first of all corporations that buy
canned air have to dispose them that can
you have when it's done yeah they have
to take it and drill a hole in the can
and you don't just throw it in the trash
I know you guys probably do evidence you
know how homeowners something just
throws in the trash yeah that's on I I
throw it in the recycle with high leaves
with high hopes that it will be recycled
yeah but I don't really know like is it
recyclable I don't really know the
answer to that right it probably is it
probably is but the environmental impact
it's like I forget how many kid there's
30 million cans of this stuff as near as
we can tell
thrown away every year that's a big
number and and they I don't know what
they end up doing with it I really don't
other than you know they drill out the
they drill a hole so it can't explode
then once it's being recycled but it's
corporate America gets points they get
green points for sustainability yeah in
buying if when they use our product they
get points because their candor is on
the list a list of bad things okay well
that's good that's very good so when I
think about so if this is going to
replace say a thousand cans of
compressed air how long is it actually
going to last like what how long is the
product good for oh well you can
recharge it 500 times so if it lasts 20
minutes times 500 they eat we have
people that bought these back in 2012
and they're still using them
you use it forever if I looked at one
today in the office that was all taken
apart I've been sent back something
happened at the bottom of the motor it
was a weird thing we've never seen
before
we sent the person a new one but they've
been using it for I don't know seven
years so they they're just really really
durable good good man and what are some
interesting uses I mean you can think of
the the practical use like I can tell
you what I just used compressed air for
this weekend which is not the best thing
in the world to do it turns out I were
using like the traditional my husband's
gonna be so happy he was right yes so I
was dusting off he has these little
model motorcycles and they have little
spokes in the wheels and I said hon can
you get me some compressed air and he
handed it to me he's like be careful
with this it's really dangerous and I
was like whatever started spraying away
thinking there was no problems now he's
probably watching now doing like the
touchdown dance yeah I was right you
know of the dangers of this product that
you've got right you know that he you
know people off that stuff I've heard
that John why why would you be ready oh
they get high they get really high
really it's a high it's more addictive
than heroin you gotta be kidding oh yeah
to to shoot that in your mouth more
addictive than heroin
the problem is folks yeah do not do this
but to shoot it in your mouth with the
thing like that can't read up it gets in
your lungs yeah and everybody is
different
I might squirt some in my mouth I'm fine
you squirt it in your mouth for the same
amount of time I did in your dad goodbye
because you can't breathe it suffocates
you Wow so something like that's that
okay that's a whole other can of worms
that were jumping in oh no that's a
whole other deal yeah it's a dangerous
thing to have in the what
guess I'm saying and that's exactly what
comes to mind as a parent yes if
somebody's listening to us now and they
have candy or in their home and they
have children get it out of there and I
mean that sincerely hide it do whatever
if you insist on having it they're in
and out away from where the kids can get
to it so the question then John and I'll
word it like this
can I get high off of your product you
know we had somebody write a review and
they said the problem is we can't get
high it's not the same thing it's not
the same thing I read that the other day
we can't problem with this is we can't
get high off oh you can't see it's just
it's taking an error in these vents
right I mean that's here and blowing it
out this here it's the same over there
if your room is full of hot air which I
assume your room is there guys a lot of
hot air and you pull the trigger in John
and it is blow out hot air all kids just
whatever's in the room all right let's
give it the ultimate test the X 3
hurricane Canlis air system with the
variable speed control on my anemometer
and I'm gonna start at the very lowest
speed and gradually work my way up from
there so hitting about 9 10 12 20 almost
30 kilometres an hour only see the how'd
it kind of dropped way down and then
start it up again almost like it
switched into second gear okay
increasing let's hit 50 kilometres an
hour almost there
oh and you see there it goes again
so now we're in like a third gear so
there's some kind of gearing mechanism
in there
and my anemometer can only go up to 90
kilometers an hour
we're probably gonna hit that oh there
we go 96 I guess 100 so I guess the
anemometer is reading higher than its
limit but it's probably inaccurate at
this point hitting a hundred and 1.5
kilometers per hour and capping off so I
think that's all my anemometer is
capable of but obviously we're getting
over 100 kilometres an hour wind off of
the x3 hurricane now John one of the
questions we have from our chat room is
they're wondering after you've expended
the 500 charges is there a way to extend
the life of the product buy a
replacement battery no how long do they
want this to last I think the rest of
their life indefinitely John 500 times
just to give you an idea around the
house people that have these I have
these around my house yep around the
house if you charge it once a month
that's probably a lot right so let's say
you charge it once a month so 12 times a
year and it's good for 500 times that's
going to do that right now how old are
they gonna be that's that's quite old
yeah so how so no we this thing is
sealed the batteries in there it's not a
it's not take the batteries out with
other batteries in these are high in
batteries that we use in here we were
talking about the other day in the
office and we said it took us a while to
perfect this and get the right
combination between the battery the
charger and the motor the battery we
have it's unbelievable Fantauzzo so
whoever rope went in tell them you and
is guaranteed for a lifetime pretty much
yeah yeah exactly
oh that take care of that question yeah
now as far as as far as the guarantee
for a lifetime what kind of
warranty comes with your unit a lifetime
oh it is lifetime warranty okay it's not
simple easy so you mine is that person
does not have to worry about changing
the batteries okay if something goes
wrong send it to us
we'll send you a new one that's fintax
Allah John where can we buy Canlis air
because you know there's the the cost
savings yeah Canlis air calm okay
is that an analyst air calm and
everything we've been discussing here
yeah is on the site it compares canned
air with our product it shows all the
different models we have the one you
guys have in your hand this x3 variable
speed is the absolute best unit we've
got very nice because you can pull it
the trigger just a little and just a
little air is come out you can pull a
lot a lot angry this done
[Music]
sorry size up here but it's it's called
kingless air comm where you can buy it
people also buy it on Amazon he's got to
be Amazon right but but to go straight
to us is the best way to do it to go
right to Canlis air comm buy the product
okay very good John yeah the variable
speed oh yes well is it really variable
oh my goodness John are you kidding me I
didn't even realize you didn't know that
it's like it's like a drill oh look at
that yeah so this is like yeah so you
can have the light yeah and then you can
have the intense
don't worry other ones we have other one
love it one yeah this this is the only
one speed fast okay
just better but for your for your
viewers and for you guys the thing you
have in your hand there this one the
variable speed
next is or hands-down the best thing
we've come up with and I love it because
you don't always need all the power yeah
a little bit so awesome yeah that's
awesome and I mean even the attachments
that it comes with the different heads
like so you guys know gives it a lot of
functionality is it they're like vacuum
heads no no real big deal but I mean
it's it's something yeah it just extends
it right but I mean that's nice because
that's something you don't get with a
can of compressed air slide a little
tube you have the environmental impact
but you also have the longevity of life
impact and now you've got these
extensions I mean it's like it's
everything you need yeah that's awesome
yeah so John thank you so much for the
product for the time that you've spent
with us you're welcome I hope if
anything we've gotten across I mean yeah
this this is a product that as a
computer technician or somebody that's
working in a computer
like you just absolutely have to have it
you cuz you're gonna have this anyway so
this product is a great product it's
used by by half the fortune 500
companies use this product yeah Wow and
that's pretty impressive very good man
well congrats on a fantastic product and
we wish you every success with Canlis
err well thank you thank you and I again
I appreciate being on anytime you want a
good laugh and we'll hook up again very
good sounds thank you John thank you
thank you as well get your ex 3
hurricane camless air system at Canlis
air dot-com
