this week we're looking at the Raspberry
Pi 4 with 8 gigabytes RAM but we're
gonna do something a little different as
we install it in the super sleek
super-spicy desktop case the Argonne one
Beck has got your top news stories
including a vulnerability and Intel
processors that's been patched in Linux
the look of the upcoming PS 5 gaming
console and the unbelievable new Pyne
Tab 10.1 inch HD tablet from Pine 64
finally crypto currency is finding its
way to the banks and our crypto
correspondent Robert Koenig will tell us
all about JP Morgan's surprising change
of heart as they begin accepting
cryptocurrency and the Bank of Korea is
seriously interested in digital currency
this is all coming up so strap in it's
time for the tech
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category-five dot TV my
name is Robby Ferguson it's so great to
be here with you in studio II and I've
got to give a big shout out a huge
thanks because this studio this show is
able to broadcast
thanks to bp9 Scott Berkeley Ron
Morissette Jerry Kowalski
Jonathan Garvey Jen's Nissen Ameritrade
bill Marshall and so many of you who
have chosen to support category-five
technology TV whether it be through our
recent Kickstarter campaign or donating
to ensure that category 5 made it safely
into this studio space we do have those
monthly expenses and it's astonishing
how quickly a month is over and here we
are I can't believe it's now mid-june so
become a patron folks it is a great way
to support category 5 TV if you love it
I mean we give away the show for free
and we always will and so I don't want
you to ever feel like there's a cost
involved in it but there are costs
involved believe it or not and and it's
up to our community coming together to
help us to afford to be able to do this
and I thank everyone who has helped us
to be in this space and I love being
here I miss my crew I'm miss having Jeff
and Sasha and Henry
join me in
studio I really do but that time is
coming and in the meantime I hope you're
enjoying the content that I'm bringing
you and the Beck is bringing you in the
newsroom and that Robert is bringing you
with the crypto corner we're all doing
our best and we're working on ways to be
able to broadcast the show as well as we
can in this time and things are changing
we'll see how things shape up over the
next few weeks couple of months none of
us really know what the timing looks
like and what the space will look like
at that point but we're doing everything
we can and I'm so committed to bringing
you new exciting content every single
week and I hope you're loving it for I
jump into the show this week I want you
to make sure that you subscribe to us on
our youtube channel that's a way you can
support us without spending any money
you can click that bell and you're gonna
receive notifications whenever we're
live or when I post new exciting content
keep in mind we hit 25,000 subscribers
on Linux tech show this week and as
promised I am honorbound to do a fancy
dance number for you I am so very sorry
I've got my first choreography session
this coming Saturday so I hope I don't
hurt myself
wish me luck and keep those subs coming
okay it's Linux tech show com if you've
never subscribed yet and who knows what
will happen at 50,000 subscribers
alright it's time to get into it folks
and you know what happens when I do make
her Tech it's time to steampunk it out
let's do this because here's the thing
you got to keep in mind the Raspberry Pi
4 is now available in models with 2 4 or
even 8 gigabytes of RAM it supports
decoding h.265 video up to 4k 60-plus
h.264 Full HD it has dual HDMI output
simple USB 3.0 and 2.0 ports Gigabit
Ethernet 802 11 AC Wireless supporting
both 2.4 and 5 gigahertz frequencies
Bluetooth 5.0 and in case you didn't
catch it I already mentioned it but it
now has up to 8 gigabytes of ddr4 3200
RAM 8 gigabytes in an SBC folks what as
the Raspberry Pi 4 is going to be in
production until at least 2020 6 it's a
great time to get into single board
computers my friends or if you've
already got a Raspberry Pi set up it's
time to upgrade the specs of this
particular Raspberry Pi are in line with
a budget PC so we want to look at it and
make it look like a sleek modern desktop
device rather than just a piece of maker
tech with a bunch of wires sticking out
of the GPIO and that my friends is where
the argon 1 case comes in this stylish
aluminum alloy body the combination of
both passive and active cooling it has
both it's got a power button that safely
controls the power state of your
Raspberry Pi 4 and that's just a few of
the points that make the argon 1 case a
beautiful choice shall we get into it
let's get our maker on folks alright
first of all I've got the Raspberry Pi 4
with 8 gigabytes of RAM does it it looks
like there's no tape on this box this
these are the kind of boxes I like there
we are
alright it doesn't even have a that's
crazy
doesn't even have a anti-static bag so
let's hope it didn't encounter any
static along the way what else have we
got in the box nothing a thing this is
they don't touch that and a manual our
right we've all seen a Raspberry Pi 4 we
all know what they look like there it is
folks it has the micro HDMI it's got the
USB C power input it's got the headphone
combination jack it's got USB to USB 3
Gigabit Ethernet 40 pin GPIO power over
ethernet connector so you can buy an
extra hat it's got a camera connector
it's got video connector and it's got
the SOC Wi-Fi chip everything else so
we're familiar with that I don't need to
get into too many details the argon 1 PI
4 case however and I should mention they
do sell a PI 3 compatible argon one so
keep that in mind however you can't
intermix so if you're using an PI 4 you
have to get the PI 4 model if you're
using a PI 3 make sure you get the PI 3
model in our case we're going big or
going home folks so let's get into it
with the PI 4 8-gigabyte never been open
before here we go let's see what is in
this box
paper what is it
warranty card whatever what's this
instructions on how to do you don't need
these you're watching the video and
presumably I'm gonna do a great job
let's get into the bag ah there it is
who cleans up the studio space anyways
there's like weeks and weeks worth no
I'm so kidding all right there's a
protective film on the plastic bits and
this my friends that is the argon one
Raspberry Pi model for sorry Raspberry
Pi for open
up and see what's inside okay we've got
this expansion board there it is this is
cool so one of the things with a
Raspberry Pi or any single board
computer for the most part is that
you've got these connectors all around
the board so it's really hard to make it
look nice on a shelf
you've got the ethernet coming out one
side you got HDMI coming out the other
and power coming out here and video
coming out here and Jeep and all that
kind of stuff so what they've done is
they've provided a basically an adapter
that is going to simply plug in to the
board to the headphone jack and the dual
HDMI output and what does it do it puts
all of those jacks directly onto the
back of the Raspberry Pi so I'm just
given that a nice snug little push I'm
being careful I'm actually holding the
the points on the board that I'm pushing
so I don't accidentally break that off
break the solder joints for that I don't
know that it would happen but I want to
be careful so there you have it so this
is going to put the audio and the dual
HDMI at the back along with USB USB 3
and Gigabit Ethernet further into the
box okay we've got some thermal pads
we're going to need those to make
thermal contact with the SOC and the the
RAM and here is the interior of the
argon one case for the Raspberry Pi 4 so
we can see a fan controller with GPIO
GPIO
riser pins so the Raspberry Pi 4 is
going to connect with the GPIO
so it's actually this is really really
cool if I can show you internally so
you're not losing the GPIO what it
actually does is under this magnetic
hood here if I can just get that off
there we go it has the GPIO risen out
from the board so here's where the
actual GPIO is and it displaces it over
here with a nice edge
GPIO header identifier so you don't have
to look for that card how cool is that
so if you want to get into maker tech
while this is looking so beautiful you
can easily remove this magnetic cover
and access the GPIO alright so let's get
this thing assembled and put together so
we can fire it up now I mentioned that
this is both active and passive cooling
so keep in mind while this is a plastic
base for the for the argon one this is
an aluminum cover okay so this is for
heat dissipation the aluminum actually
kind of pulls the heat away from the SOC
and these are the two contacts so we've
got one for the the SOC itself and one
for the RAM and then we've got the
active cooler so if it still gets too
hot even though it is dissipating the
heat through the aluminum then the fan
which is on a fan controller will spin
up to designated speeds that you specify
based on temperatures I'm going to show
you how all that works in just a few
moments so I need this thermal pad which
is going to make a nice little contact
with with the S these are not the
thermal pads these are feet whoa I was
like hey thermal pad these are feet for
the case this is gonna go right on here
cool I can do that first can't I will do
things out of order I'm sure that that's
what the instructions say to do put the
feet on first just like Ravi at category
five that way I don't forget or lose
them how many people have a whole bunch
of these rubberized feet sitting in
their tool chest there we go
okay that's done now I can put those
aside and now I do have these thermal
pads which there we are
they have like us an adhesive on either
side so just peel
that plastic make sure you do you don't
want to put the plastic on there and
have it melt on you when you're doing a
TV show it's good to clip your nails for
aesthetics it's terrible for peeling
plastic off the back of an adhesive and
that just goes right on there same with
this one there we are and it's really
really easy to put together it already
is kind of preassembled boy oh boy if
you have a choice do not clip your nails
before doing this
[Music]
there we are didn't take any trouble at
all
isn't it great that the most challenging
thing about installing this and doing
this yourself to setup a Raspberry Pi
for with 8 gigs of ram in an argon one
the hardest thing was to get the sticky
part the sticker cover off of the
thermal pad ok so observe the GPIO the
positioning of it and we're going to
position that directly over the GPIO
here careful not to bend any pins and
I'm just going to turn this around so
you can see this side as well and I'm
just going to push that down nice and
snug and it just goes in just like a
GPIO should there we are make sure
everything is aligned nicely and we've
got all these screws I presume it's time
to put them all together so it looks
like I've got one two three four spots
to screw in internally and then four for
the cover so it's going to be these
smaller screws on the inside
and note that there is a hole on the
Raspberry Pi where there is no standoff
so you're not screwing into that and
we're leaving these four outer ones for
the bottom of the case so now I'm just
gonna put that on top and grab the four
longer screws and we're gonna put those
ones in there we have it congratulations
you did it you did it it wasn't that
hard was it
check out the ports on the back I love
how sleek that looks notice there's no
other ports all around
we do have an SD micro SD port at the
front kind of hidden away on the bottom
however all of the i/o has been moved to
the back I love that plus we've got this
power button and it's just absolutely
sleep we do have to take a quick break
when we return I'm gonna fire this up
and together we're gonna check out the
features of the argon one case with the
8 gigabyte Raspberry Pi 4 stick around
during the break I grabbed my micro SD
card with the latest version of a
Raspberry Pi OS on it I wanted to say
raspbian but they've changed the name so
it's called Raspberry Pi os now I
tracked down my 5 volt 3.5 amp power
supply and just keep in mind the
Raspberry Pi 4 is a power-hungry beast
so while I could probably power it with
my 3 amp power supply or potentially
even something a little bit less you
could damage your SD card if there isn't
enough power and that's surprisingly
easy to do let's say I willy-nilly plug
in a USB device that draws an amp or
something from the USB port well there
you go so I prefer to err on the side of
caution so using a 3.5 amp power supply
is just playing it safe that'll ensure
that I get the best reliability out of
my Raspberry Pi 4 alright with all the
cables connected I'm going to fire up
the Raspberry Pi 4 with a single press
on the power button on the Aragon one
and I can hear just a little spin of a
fan I don't even think you'll be able to
hear that with our compressors and
everything else but it's just a slight I
can tell that the fan has turned on and
it's off and I am booted into my distro
man that is great ok one thing I'm just
gonna mention right out the gate because
running cool feels good powered up great
there's one thing that I think are gone
one potentially misses the boat on and
that's that we're still using the micro
HDMI okay so I'm still having to use a
micro HDMI to HDMI cable in order to
plug this into my TV and into the
capture devices so that you can see it
at home
however now while I feel like a bee they
missed the boat on that they could have
made it full HDMI they've got room for
it they could have done that and besides
they're in control of what they put on
the case however as I move this around
it's not janky at all
there's no disconnection on the HDMI and
I don't know about you but when I plug
my Raspberry Pi board directly into an
HDMI cable just like I've done with the
argon one if I move it ever so slightly
the screen goes green or it goes kind of
digitally distorted or something and so
I've got to jiggle that cable again and
then if it ever gets moved I lose that
connectivity and it causes problems well
the argon one seems like even though
it's still micro HDMI which mmm it's not
the perfect connection for this kind of
thing even though it is still micro HDMI
it is significantly more solid than the
micro HDMI that's built into the
Raspberry Pi and I noticed that
immediately so I think you will
appreciate that as I mentioned I'm using
an HD micro HDMI to HDMI cable you can
also use a micro HDMI to full-sized HDMI
adapter if you like and the argon one
case is definitely giving me a better
connection to that HDMI output alright I
got a plug in a keyboard
I've already plugged in my USB wireless
mouse I've got my keyboard here and I'm
just gonna plug that into the USB 2
because I'm gonna save those USB 3s for
something else there we go alright so
the firt Oh a little bit of latency
there the first thing that I want to
consider is I want to I mentioned that
this is that this is a smart power
switch so the power switch is
programmable the heat dissipation the
active heat cooler is actually
programmable and I'm starting to feel a
little bit of warmth there this is
what's making me think of that cooling
system
so you can see there's vents at the side
and this is doing a really good job of
cooling the Raspberry Pi for however it
is starting to get warm and I want that
fan to come on if it starts to get a
little bit too warm so it has that
passive cooling from the aluminum and it
has an active cooling system the fan
that will turn on as needed so let's get
into our terminal and I need to become
root so I'm just gonna type sudo su -
and there boom I am root so I am root
you see the instructions that say to go
curl and then the URL HTTP colon slash
slash download dot argon-40 comm / argon
and then it's one the number one SH and
then a pipe why can't I think of the
word bash okay so I want to break down
that command for you okay what I'm
actually doing is I'm telling it to use
curl to download basically to the output
this script from download argon-40 comm
/ argon one dot sh but instead of
outputting it to my screen which is what
would happen if I remove the pipe bash
see that that's the script so the pipe
bash says let's actually run that script
in bash it's piping that output into
bash so if I wanted to take a different
approach and say I want to control what
this is actually doing or I want to
modify this installer the scripts before
I actually install it well let's take a
different approach so instead I'm going
to W get that or I could have piped the
curl so I'm gonna double you get o and
it's kind of monkeyed with my terminal
window there I'm going to ctrl C so that
you can see that a little better
W get oh there we go
so W get is another download tool but
this one is going to actually save the
file to argon one SH now it's grabbing
the
I've got it and all I have to do in
order to edit that file is I can use
Nano for example so nano argon one dot
Sh it's gonna bring it up into my
favorite text editor alright so first
thing that I see and I should say that
one of the nice things about doing it
this way is that you can inspect the
code it's this is one of the things
about open source and the way the Linux
works is you can look through and see if
there's anything that you want to change
or whatever you want to do but so first
of all I see a couple of functions just
basically so that they can reuse some of
the things like creating a file touching
it and setting the permissions before
adding the content check if a package is
installed it's gonna allow them to see a
response code of either ng which is
presumably not good or okay if the
package is not found in dpkg query and
that is going to be called further down
using this loop which grabs a package
list like raspy - GPIO Python - our PI
GPIO and so on and so forth so basically
packages that are going to get installed
with apt-get so then it goes through a
loop here in package list and it goes
through that loop installing and
approving the installation of each of
those packages but if any of the
packages fail to install response with
ng then it's gonna say hey there's
something wrong you're not connected to
the internet and it's going to die if
however it because there's no else it's
just going to resume if that doesn't
happen so then it's going to move on to
here so we've named the daemon Argan one
D and we've got a power button script
going to be created in user slash bin
slash Argan 1d dot pi we've got a
shutdown script in Lib system D called
Argan D Argan one D dot - power off dot
PI and so on and so forth so those are
just the file names so that they can be
reused alright these commands are
enabling I squared C and I guess do
serial that must be serial that's just
my guess okay and then we're starting to
write out the file so if the daemon
config file does not
let's create it so we touch it for some
reason they're not using their their
function here maybe that's a bug and we
could fix it it doesn't matter it's
doing exactly the same thing it's just
funny that it it is happening
redundantly they could have used the
function these are comments and then at
the bottom of the config file are the
temperature to fan speed ratios so if it
hits 55 degrees C it's gonna set the fan
speed to 10% if it hits 60 degrees C
it's gonna set the fan speed to 55 and
65 degrees Celsius is going to set the
fan speed to a full 100% so hopefully we
never hit that point so those
configuration items of course they can
be changed here before you install it or
and that's just going to change the
output of the daemon config file or of
course you can edit that later or you
can use the tool that they're going to
give you in order to make those changes
yourself shutdown script there we go see
there use an argon create file now and
this is a Python script that it is
creating although it's running this in
bash it's so what is doing is it's using
the bash command to output to the
shutdown script it's importing sis SM
bus from Raspberry Pi GPIO as GPIO and I
was checking the revision number of the
Raspberry Pi and acting accordingly
moving down power button script this is
going to be what happens when you push
that power button so again a Python
script lets grabbing the bus it's
grabbing the GPIO
OS the time and that's not just the time
that's the like the counter and the
clock and everything else okay what's
happening here so checks the revision
again and acts accordingly because it
may be a little bit different response
based on the revision of the board so
it's checking the shutdown check this is
a function so yeah when you push the
button it responds so when you push it
when you okay so it's incrementing
something called pulse time that's a an
integer string that well not an integer
string but an integer that's
incrementing and every time you push the
button it's kind of it's counting that
so
when you push it twice it's going to
safely reboot the the Raspberry Pi now
note what's actually happening when you
push that button twice is that it's
running the OS system command reboot so
it's not doing a hard reboot is not
cutting power and then powering it back
on no it's actually running the reboot
command that I would run in my bash
prompt so it's a safe reboot it's going
to automatically sync your SSD it's
gonna save your files and whatever else
that it normally would do during a
reboot command you can also add your own
stuff here if you wanted to like I could
do something like remember this is this
is even though we're typing this in bash
this is going to be a Python script so
you could put any Python here any Python
and then just make sure that you pipe
that with not pipe but direct that to
dollar sign power button script you
could also edit that that file at any
time you could edit that power button
script which is if you go back up it's
going to be saved power button script
slash user slash bin slash argon 1d dot
pi so you can edit that script and then
you'll be able to change the what it
does when you push the power button
twice or when you hold it in for three
seconds and and you can make it react
the way you want maybe you want it to
send you an email or something like that
you can do that or you have something
else like a APC UPS that you want to
have safely turned off or something
after a 30 second time or I don't know
maybe you've got a watchdog plugged into
the GPIO you can use that as well
okay so if you push the button for if
you long press for three seconds it's
going to run shutdown now - eh so that's
actually a safe shutdown command to
power off your computer so you're not
just killing power like you would if you
continue to hold in that button for five
seconds which is not a safe way to do it
that's like your last resort but this
script is as you can see running those
commands as you normally would safely so
you push that button
triggers the gpio and it's monitoring
how long you press it or how many times
you press it and then it reacts
accordingly so with a little python
knowledge you could make that do
whatever you want if I push it three
times I want it to play my favorite song
that kind of stuff
whatever you think you can look through
here lots of fun so I love that as you
know people who like to look under the
hood we can do so and then when we're
done say we've made some changes we can
control o enter to write our changes and
then control X to exit and now I just
need to go chmod plus x are gone one dot
Sh and now I can run that by going dot
slash argon one dot Sh just like that
which is exactly the same as using curl
the URL typing it into bash and I'm
going to run that here we go it's
already got GPIO it's already got a
couple of the things that are gone one
is needing I squared C is already
installed and active and ready to go and
we're done shortcuts created okay what
oh yeah look at that there are actually
shortcuts on my desktop all right argon
one configuration let's run it we're
gonna execute that in a terminal all
right
argon one fan speed configuration tool
this will remove existing configurations
press Y alright what do you wanna do
always-on let's try it yeah I hear it
you guys hear that it's so quiet even at
on that's pretty good I'm pleased with
that however because it is controlled by
an I squared C controller rather than
just a GPIO pin it's not just on or off
it's you're able to set the threshold so
that's where we can run that
configuration script again and say
adjust the temperature so let's bring
that up on our screen a little bit I'm
having trouble seeing that on my screen
okay so please provide fan speeds for
the following temperatures 55 C let's do
25% fan speed 60 C let's do 50% fan
speed 65 C all right 90% okay so now the
fan just shut right off because it is
using the passive cooling to keep that
thing below 55 I think it was so it's
completely silent if I start using my
raspberry pi to death it's going to spin
up that fan alright so now that I've got
that script installed presumably if I
push the power button it's not going to
do anything nothing however if I push it
two times what's it going to do and
we're gonna lose the screen here but if
it works we know and there it goes and
now notice it's not killing the power I
don't know if you can see that but it is
actually done a safe reboot that's
fantastic that is the Raspberry Pi 4
with 8 gigabytes of RAM plus the argon
one case those are just fantastic
products I'm really really pleased with
this I love that I can still access the
GPIO without having to take apart the
case that's cool
just absolutely gorgeous we've got a
head over to the newsroom folks I hope
you enjoyed that segment we've got some
great news stories for you so here is
Becca here's what's coming up in the
category 5 TV newsroom the latest Intel
crosstalk vulnerability has been patched
in Debian CentOS and Red Hat Enterprise
Linux Sony has unveiled the look of the
PS 5 Facebook's giphy takeover is being
halted while the UK competition and
Markets Authority investigate the deal
researchers have discovered a way to
record audio in real time by focusing a
telescope on a distant light bulb and
the pine tab Linux tablet from Pine 64
is now available for pre-order
and you can get one for just $100 stick
around the full details and this week's
crypto corner are coming up this is the
category five dot TV newsroom covering
the week's top texture with a slight
linux bias from
the newsroom I'm Becca Ferguson the
latest Intel crosstalk vulnerability is
now patched in Debian gnu/linux sent OS
Linux as well as Red Hat Enterprise
Linux systems the recently found
hardware vulnerability known as
crosstalk was discovered by researchers
from view university Amsterdam in some
Intel processors the flaw could allow
local attackers or virtual machine
guests to expose sensitive information
like cryptographic keys from other users
or VMS already patched in all supported
Ubuntu releases the vulnerability has
also now been patched in Debian Buster
and stretch plus sent OS 6 &amp; 7 as well
as Red Hat Enterprise Linux version 6 &amp;
7
to mitigate the vulnerability in their
systems users will have to install the
latest Linux kernel and Intel micro code
updates which are now available in the
stable software repositories of their
distributions
although Debian stretch users must
enable the non free repository to get
the patch make sure you reboot your
systems after installing the new Linux
kernel and Intel micro code updates
Sony has given gamers a first look at
the design of its next console as well
as some of the titles it will play due
to the corona virus pandemic Sony opted
to stream a pre-recorded video rather
than host a live event the PlayStation 5
has a black core surrounded by curved
white edging and a blue glow to follow
ups two best-selling ps4 releases were
among the standout games announcements
spider-man Miles Morales and horizon for
bid in West Sony's machine will launch
alongside Microsoft's rival Xbox series
X before the end of the year so many
people remarked that the console looked
like a Wi-Fi router that the term
trended on Twitter shortly after the
event more than two dozen new games were
shown off in total other highlights
included a first look at Sony's racing
game Gran Turismo 7 and a brief look at
Cap Korn Capcom's zombie horror game
Resident Evil 8 the play
station five is set to go on sale later
this year seven years after the ps4 in
addition to being able to deliver
improve visuals the new machine also has
a customized harddrive that will make it
possible to radically reduce load times
sony is building a library of launch
titles that will only be available on
its next-generation machine including
some brand new titles never-before-seen
one of the more unusual games was stray
a third-person cat adventure that set in
a neon-lit cyber city there was no
mention of any virtual reality games
however nor was there any mention of a
PlayStation 5 version of the Last of Us
2 rather than a quantum leap this next
generation looks like it might be built
around lots of smaller improvements in
areas like audio with 3d sound and
improved haptic feedback in the
controller beyond better visuals and
faster loading times what does the next
generation actually mean when it comes
to games on this evidence more of the
same
shooters racers third-person adventure
titles and sports games things we
already have but graphically improved
Facebook's
takeover of Gylfie a search engine for
funny reaction images is being
investigated by the UK's competition
authority jiffy's vast library of
looping short video animations is hugely
popular in Facebook's apps but it also
provides animations to competitors like
tick-tock snapchat snapchat snapchat and
Twitter now the UK competition in
markets authority CMA is investigating
whether the purchase is a problem it has
sent an enforcement order to Facebook
effectively putting a hold on any
merging of the companies until its
investigation is over announcing the
acquisition in May this year facebook
said that half of jiffy's traffic comes
from facebook apps including whatsapp
and Instagram but it also said that the
deal worth a reported four hundred
million dollars would not affect deals
in place with other partners the CMA
however said it was investigating
whether or not the acquisition may be
expected to result
in a substantial lessening of
competition but the enforcement means
Facebook has to keep the jiffy company
staff and Technology separate from
Facebook itself unless it gets advanced
written permission from the CMA it is
not the first time concerns have been
raised about the Facebook Jaffe deal
with questions raised over the level of
access Facebook would have to its
competitors data through the service the
CMA is inviting comments until July 3rd
with no date set for its decision
the pine tab Linux tablet from pine
sixty-four is now available for
pre-order becca has these stories coming
up plus roberts here with the crypto
corner don't go anywhere
welcome to the cryptic horn as usual
we'll start with the market the market
hasn't changed significantly in the
total volume 270 billion it was similar
to last week but there has been a dip in
the last few days and the market hasn't
recovered since then although as you can
see last 24 hours
most of the coins are in in green so a
Bitcoin is now at four 9450 for US
dollars and if we sought by seven days
you will see that a few coins had some
fantastic gains I mean we've got birch
with seventy seven point five percent
gain and in total that fifteen tokens
coins that had again over fifteen
percent and if we sought by dance above
negative we only had two coins that had
done trend towards trend over 15% it
shows that the market is maturing and
growing as it was also last week if we
look at my favorite subject
decentralized fineness defy market this
one is grown by almost 1 billion in one
week it was last week 2.4 billion now
it's 3.3 billion the biggest one is now
compound as you remember from last week
and previous weeks with maker Dow is the
number one and that has changed now and
by a significant difference it's now
compound being the number one with a
growth in 24 hours of over 40 percent so
this market is heating up and it's
getting more and more interesting from
day to day
now another subject is and this this is
interesting for everybody here because
you hear so many opinions on how the
market is performing it's going up it's
going down the future's going bright
it's dark and I just want to show you
one example of what has happened in the
past and it is here JP Morgan their CEO
Jamie Dimon
said this was in 2000 safety 17 he said
that bitcoin is a fraud and that
everybody would fire everybody and he
said that openly in the forum and he
would fire every about everyone in the
bank that is trading Bitcoin in a second
now interesting enough if we look into
the news from this week we see that JP
Morgan completely surprised surprises
with a bet bit coin flip so now they
know supporting Bitcoin and that's the
interesting part you need to really form
your own opinion in this market don't
listen to the so-called experts because
you see JP Morgan one of the biggest
banks in the world suddenly changes the
opinion overnight and so they're not
real experts you're the own expert just
form your own opinion when you follow a
coin or you want to do an investment
next one is an analysis on the on the
development of some coins and its
outlier ventures that did an analysis
and which was quite interesting so they
see that there has been a downturn in
development for around 20% in average
but some again as polka-dot has got
increased in substantial rise in develop
activity polka-dot in Cosmos 15% and
theta and Caetano increased the core
development significantly it's
interesting because they did a very
thorough analysis on on how the market
is card developing from the
technological point of view the
development and so on I will put a link
of this PDF file in in the in the in the
description next headline is you
remember China they have launched
already their cryptocurrency the fiat
cryptocurrency in our Korea is doing the
same thing they're applying the issues
everybody every countries suddenly
jumping on this strain of having a
cryptocurrency back system
next one is an analysis last week I
reported about PwC analysis on the hedge
fund industry and here this one was done
by fidelity digital assets and they've
got some interesting findings too so a
survey of 800 institutional investors in
the US and Europe found almost 80
percent intrigued by digital assets with
36% already invested in the market and
broken down by market it looks like
Europe it seems to be more bullish than
the US because only 27% of the
institutions of the u.s. institutions
now that includes pension funds family
offices investment advisors in digital
and transitional hedge funds have
invested in cryptocurrencies but this is
up from 22% a year ago so it went up by
5% it's an interesting development I
would say and it shows that the
investors in the investment market is
participating in our industry and last
but not least is and I put also a link
of that report in the in the show notes
last one is the human rights foundation
launched a Bitcoin Development Fund and
so the HRF launches a fund to support
developers who are making the Bitcoin
more private and decentralized and
resilient so that it can be better that
it can better serve as a financial tool
for human right activists I find that
also interesting that human rights
foundation is supporting with cash
developers to make our Bitcoin a little
bit more private so that's it for me
this week I hope I hope you enjoyed it
and I'm looking forward to see you next
week with some I guarantee you fantastic
news and yeah until then I wish you
great week and thank you very much for
watching thank you Robert just a
reminder that we're not providing
financial advice but simply sharing
what's happening in the cryptocurrency
market always remember that the
cryptocurrency markets are ever-changing
always volatile so you should only spend
what you can afford to lose now back to
Becca in the newsroom Thank You Robbie
in an era of digital eavesdropping where
hackers employ a variety of means to
take over built-in video cameras peruse
personal digital data and snoop on
cellular conversations researchers have
seen the light literally viewers in the
UK will want to make sure their license
is up-to-date because here's an upgrade
the BBC might want to add to their TV
detector vans Israeli researchers report
that they successfully tapped into
speech and music inside an apartment
simply by focusing on a light bulb in a
paper published over the weekend the
researchers said all they needed were a
telescope and a $400 optical sensor
which they used to measure barely
perceptible light bulb vibrations
triggered by either voices or music in
the room the research team conducted the
test by pointing a telescope towards a
light bulb in an apartment building 27
yards away capturing the vibrations from
the ball they were able to reconstruct
with fair quality let it be by the
Beatles clocks by Coldplay and a snippet
of a speech by President Trump the
researchers said we show how
fluctuations in the air pressure on the
surface of the hanging bulb in response
to sound which caused the bulb to
vibrate very slightly
Amil a debris vibration can be exploited
by eavesdroppers to recover speech and
singing passively externally and in real
time they noted that a direct line of
sight to the bulb is required lampshades
or window curtains will prevent it from
working also the test sounds were played
at maximum volume the approach called
lamp phone is an improvement over recent
developments in eavesdropping technology
Ben nasi a developer of the program
explained any sound in the room can be
recovered from the room with no
requirement to hack anything and no
device in the room you just need line of
sight to head to a hanging bulb and this
is it previous comparable approaches
include the memorable 2014
visual microphone developed by MIT
Microsoft and Adobe that reconstructed
speech and music from a room by
analyzing micro vibrations from a bag of
potato chips sitting on a table while
impressive the device required massive
computational power and much time to
analyze recorded vibrations lamp phone
can be conducted in real-time the wait
is finally over as the pine table
pre-orders are now open for everyone
powered by the latest Ubuntu touch OS
from UV ports the pine tab features a
beautiful 10.1 inch HD IPS compositive
touchscreen at 1280 by 800 pixels and is
powered by an all winner a 64 chip
combined with a 64-bit quad-core 1.2
gigahertz arm cortex a53 processor and a
Mali 400 GPU it comes with a replaceable
64 gigabytes emmc module 2 gigabytes ram
and a micro SD card slot supporting up
to 2 terabyte cards the pine tab also
features a rear 5 megapixel camera with
LED flash and a selfie 2 megapixel
camera it has stereo speakers a
detachable backlit keyboard option that
can also act as a cover or stand and a
removable battery for neck for
connectivity it has the usual suspects
Wi-Fi Bluetooth and so on
but it also has a headphone jack plus
USB ports including OTG and video HD
output which really helps the pine tab
stand out at this price point you can
get your hands on the latest Linux
tablet from Pine 64 right now for only
$99.99 USD or a hundred and nineteen
ninety-eight USD with the detachable
backlit keyboard
according to pine 64 the estimated
shipping time is currently set for late
July
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias
if you appreciate what we do become a
patron at patreon.com slash category 5
from the category 5 TV newsroom I'm
Becca Ferguson oh it has been so great
having you here again this week please
check out our website it's category 5
dot TV there's some great content there
and you'll be able to watch videos from
years gone by we've been doing this for
13 years and if you enjoy the content
please subscribe to us on youtube at
linux tech show com
in the meantime we are on twitter at
category 5 TV I'm personally on Twitter
as your host at robbie ferguson and
incidentally i follow back don't forget
to subscribe to us on your favorite
platform we are on the roku channel
store for example you'll find us on
youtube you'll find us on Facebook and
Twitter and all these places just do a
quick search for category 5 technology
TV and I thank you so much for watching
have a wonderful week everyone and I'll
see you again
