welcome to the show everybody's so great
to have you back with us a game this
week Jeff's back sash is here how are
you good to see you both yeah this week
thanks we this week we are going to be
turning an O droid n to see this little
SBC down here it's very small it's very
powerful incidentally but it doesn't
generate a lot of heat doesn't make any
noise and it doesn't use a lot of
electricity but we're gonna be turning
it into a full-fledged lamp stack aka a
web server to host our websites good
times
stick around you're gonna find out how
we do that our live recordings are
trusted only to solid-state drives by
Kingston technology revive your computer
with improved performance and
reliability over traditional drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 dot TV slash TPM and the
International Association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show everybody nice to
have you here for episode number 613
guitars 613 weeks of putting up with the
bald nerd Wow
so thanks I don't know if you can call
it putting up with just like indulging
thank you appreciate that world
appreciate that very very much that's
actually that would be a fun like binge
watching marathon event because I know
some of our viewers are complete you so
it's like watch right from the beginning
and go right right on through to current
let's watch the evolution of cameras but
I feel like that takes a Netflix in
shell to a whole new level
cuz that's like what two months worth if
you didn't stop that's crazy
mm-hmm we do have long winters here so
there you go you're Canadian winter
I ain't watching category 5 archives I
don't believe there was ever a time in
the history of the show in the full 12
almost 13 years when I had a full head
of hair just didn't happen
no but remember that one time I saw a
clip of you and you had somebody with
hair I was gonna say I think even like
your wedding photos there was not as
some finning going yeah yeah I do react
the same way when I see pictures of Dave
who is bald he used to have very long
hair and oh yes it's strange like it's
not that he looks strange but it's like
I only know you and him as long right
like and then yeah yeah I mean could you
imagine mr. clean like if they rebrand
it and gave him like Fabio's hair a man
bun right it just wouldn't it just would
feel weird yeah okay the first time ever
ever ever that cat5 has aired after the
NBA championships were won by a Canadian
team oh I almost worry so does like
history in the making I guess so and I
guess so the inventors of the basketball
have finally won at the basketball yeah
well done that's right Haneda we the
North Raptors everybody's like
everybody's like what does that have to
do with tech I'll tell you what it has
to do with tech absolutely nothing right
hi well it's a little bit of Canadian
pride this is absolutely suck it up
buttercup alright well have you tried
installing Windows Update as of late
they've done it once again okay
Microsoft has released an update that
bricks a lot of systems now this one is
unique so listen up if you use
encryption on your hard drive products
like deslock+ ESET endpoint encryption
if you use those to encrypt your data
the 1903 update from Microsoft will
actually brick your system that's like a
yeah so make sure you check if you use
encryption technology to protect your
data on your Windows 10 machine make
sure you check with your vendors before
you go and opt-in for that update and
you might even consider in that case if
you use those kinds of products maybe
block that update until vendors figure
out what's going on now this is new news
and so they're still trying to get to
the bottom of maybe by the time you
watch this they will have patched the
patch or something like that but as it
is they're still looking into what's
actually happening right yeah so strange
they keep doing this I have a theory
about Microsoft trying rolling updates
well yeah it's gonna say I have a theory
about what's happening and it's called
people continue to install Windows oh
yeah good theory yep that's that's the
problem so just stop go for this yeah oh
speaking of installing when you couldn't
you could use Luke's to do the
encryption I could I happen to install
Windows XP on a computer earlier this
week simply because why you experience
para menteng with danger well it was not
connected to the network in any way but
simply because I was going through old
disks yeah and I found my Windows XP I
was like I have to install this Justice
John yeah
and as soon as I did I'm like going to
Linux and it was a very satisfying
moment you actually sat there and
pressed the idea it's a owner√≠s
installation process shockingly it was
like 10 minutes faster that's like it's
gonna take half a day oh you're done
that's like okay god ah shows what you
know that's right Before we jump into
the show today I want to remind you to
make sure that you subscribe to us on
YouTube and don't forget to click the
bell that
is going to notify you anytime we post
brand new shiny videos or when we go
live this week we are looking at the
Odroid n2 but with a little bit of a
twist because we are looking at it and
thinking what would this be perfect for
and these days arm is absolutely taking
over the server environment and what
we're starting to see is a transition
from big heavy high powered hide like
electrical usage servers that generate a
lot of noise generate a lot of heat in
the server room and a migration to these
lightweight arm servers and and the
evolution of that is really the dry the
the driving factor is the single board
computer right it started with Raspberry
Pi and has been blowing up with
companies like friendly alack and hard
kernel there Odroid products and and all
the like pine 64 have created some
incredible open source boards and a lot
of the stuff is open and available so
there are so many different ones
available the Odroid n2 is one of the
newer ones from hard kernel and I'm
gonna get in here so that you can just
get a bit of a closer look so this is
what it looks like and you'll see I
literally literally have only two cables
plugged into it
I've got Gigabit Ethernet and power and
beyond that nothing is connected I have
a micro SD card plugged in and you can
see that this thing is just flashing
away doing its thing
and I'm holding it it's making no noise
it's making no heat and that ladies and
gentlemen today is going to become a web
server oh cool hmm
so everything that we're about to learn
transcends the Odroid end too so whether
you want to do this on an actual
physical server if you want to do this
on a different single board computer
because that's a lot of fun and this is
pretty impressive to be able to run your
websites off pardon me off of a little
single board computer like
there are some advantages to the N -
first of all the SOC which we'll say is
the CPU okay so this the the
system-on-chip is on the underside of
the board you notice there is no CPU SOC
on the on the visible side it's on the
underside and then we've got this
massive heat sink which is absorbing and
and diffusing all of that heat that
would be generated under normal use case
so it's a lot cooler than a lot of
single board computers and it doesn't
throttle because of that right so it
runs really really well so let's get a
quick overview of what what this thing
is of course
it's excellent value for the money I
mean they started about $65 on
Ameritrade comm you can use our coupon
code cat 5 TV supporter that will bump
another dollar off plus you'll be you'll
actually be supporting the show at the
same time the cheapest model comes with
2 gigabytes of RAM inbuilt for an
additional 15 dollars that's all it
takes you can actually double that to 4
gigs so it's a single-board computer
with 4 gigabytes of RAM well what do you
do for storage as you see I'm using a
micro SD card so I could stick like 128
gig micro sd in there if I wanted to
it's uhs-i and it also has emmc
so you'll see on the board here i have a
port specifically for an emmc card so I
can plug it in there or I can use a
micro SD or I can use both and just
choose which one I want to boot from so
that gives us two options for storage
why would I go with the MMC any guesses
no versus SD Oh faster faster yes that's
point number one point number two is
reliable it's much more reliable for
something like this now I'm using an SD
card just for the sake of the
demonstration it's quick and dirty right
and I can get up and going really really
fast if you're going to be using this as
a webserver that's gonna be on 24/7 with
a lot of reads and writes happening on
the disk
you might consider switching to emmc
it's gonna be able to it's gonna last
longer but nice thing again is you can
you can back up the whole card just
using like a create an image of that
card using dde or your favorite tool
win32diskimager or something like that
and make a complete duplicate of that
card so that you can you know if it
crashes you can reflash it brilliant it
also has four count 1 2 3 4 USB 3 full
sized ports so if you'd like you can
plug in an external storage which I
would say if you're gonna be doing
something you know with where you've got
a lot of data you could do like a raid 1
enclosure something with two drives in
it so that you've got a fair bit of
storage but also there's some redundancy
there to remove the filesystem kind of
from the SD or MMC move it on to USB 3
and you've got a good fast connection to
be able to serve up those files to your
website visitors ok the SOC I mentioned
on the bottom side is an analogic s-92
2x which gives that 4 cortex a 73 cores
running at 1.8 gigahertz and then we've
got 2 cortex a53 cores running at 1.9
gigahertz so total of 6 cores with an
average of 1 point 8 5 gigahertz right
so it's good good performance out of
this little guy and we'll see that in in
practice as well I mentioned if the
ethernet is gigabit it is true Gigabit
Ethernet so whereas a Raspberry Pi has
what 10 over 100 I think they brought
out a gigabit version but it's not
actually gigabit it's like 300 Meg per
second or something like that because it
shares with the USB bus and this is a
dedicated it's true yeah true Gigabit
Ethernet it has an onboard real-time
clock and I can't emphasize that enough
when it comes to the fact that we're
going to be using this as a server
because that is really really important
for our server and a Raspberry Pi
doesn't have that nothing against the
Raspberry Pi that's not my my point or
my intention
just saying from single board to single
board computer there are differences and
and it's important to understand what we
need in order to make it work the way
that we want it to work now for for our
purposes as a server I want to use the
real-time clock that's going to keep
time now it's got a battery jack here
for the RTC battery and you can just
pick these up same place that you buy
the board and you can buy the case as
well like an extra four bucks to get a
little case enclosure for it but the
real time clock battery just looks like
this and it's just a button cell battery
with a wire coming out of it and even
with the power on I'm just going to plug
that right into the RTC port for the
battery now that's done so now it has
battery backup for the real-time clock
so if power ever went out for an
extended time my servers not going to
lose time and it's also going to keep on
top of time so we're not going to have
to worry about losing time right that's
really important for my server very
important yeah another server
enhancement is what comes from arm arm
v8 which is the hardware SSL so open SSL
is significantly faster so that's like a
hardware crip the crypto extensions that
are part of the arm v8 with that
performance on open SSL which is like
encryption for our websites encryptions
for our data about five times almost
five times as fast as the already
impressive Odroid xu4 so significant
significant performance gain there now I
want to add you know that it's already
powered up
I've got everything up and going but I
haven't installed anything so the only
thing that I've done is I've imaged
balled nerds Debian Buster SBC base
image okay you can get that at my blog
bald nerd comm what the base image is is
it's just Debian buster so Debian 10
vanilla out of the box that's ready to
go you just image it and boot it up so
let's let's actually jump over to I'm
going to jump over to my computer and
first I'm gonna get a terminal window up
there we go
I have SSH into this and with the bald
nerd base image it's simply bald nerd is
the username bald nerd is the password
keep it simple right and if you ever
forget your password just look right
here and then you'll know exactly what
your password is okay so that's the base
image comes that way we will be learning
on a future episode how to change the
username and password but for now this
is what we're gonna do so I'm gonna
become root by typing sudo su and again
my password bald nerd and Here I am on
Debian buster
and running the four point nine point
one eight zero kernel and so the first
thing I need to do because the base
image comes with absolutely nothing it's
just nice and clean first thing I want
to do is DF - H and I just want to make
sure that my micro SD or MMC card has
resized I can see that it is showing the
full size of fourteen gigs it's truly a
16 gig card I'm currently using 1.1 gigs
I've got 13 gigs free now if that said
you know that the usage was 70 or 80%
then that means that the resize
operation failed so you'll need to
correct that but so that's important
that you check that first because if we
start installing things and there's not
enough space you're gonna run out of
space and you're gonna have to start all
over again
because you're probably going to corrupt
the file system so I know I've got 13
gigs free and I'm good to go so git
clone HTTP colon slash slash cat 5 node
pardon me github.com slash cat 5 TV
slash cat 5 TV - SBC test this we have
seen on the show before and this
repository has a couple of great tools
for us first of all some benchmarking
things obviously I've added a MySQL
benchmark and of course the system
benchmark which gives us giggle scores
is there as well but what I'm interested
in is a folder called installers so do
you notice where I am because I cloned
in my home folder so slash home slash
bald nerd slash cat 5 TB
spc test / installers and of course the
way that I get there is from my home
folder so if I do CD slash home slash
bald nerd for example I could just type
CD C space C and then I hit tab and
that's a quick hot link and then I can
hit tab again and it'll give me a list
of files I can type install or in and
then hit tab and it'll take me to
installers okay so now I have a little
file in there called lamp SH and this is
a really quick way to set up our lamp
stack so Linux Apache MySQL or Maria DB
and PHP
alright we're going of course is Debbie
and Buster so we're doing PHP 7.3 keep
it real my friends and let's take a
quick look at this just for those who
are curious as to what it's actually
doing so it's gonna update apt it's
going to install apache2 PHP 7.3 PHP 7.3
- CLI that's our command-line interface
for it some common files curl a handful
of packages plugins that are helpful
like Gd the imaging library JSON support
and B string MySQL connectivity for PHP
op cache yeah so just a handful of
things that are going to be helpful for
this set up and XML SQLite that kind of
stuff and then we've got the Apache
library or pardon me the the module for
PHP 7.3 which we're gonna activate later
and everything else
sodium encryption library all that kind
stuff and then we see Maria DB - server
that's our MySQL server and mod security
is the final thing just to add some
additional security and change these if
you want you can modify it just showing
you how it works then it's going to
create a root password for MySQL because
these days Maria DB - server does not
automatically prompt during installation
for a root password so we want to run
that script and then enabling PHP 7.3
first disabling NPM event and then
enabling PHP 7.3 and restarting Apache
and then that's it it
done all right so let's let's actually
do it let's just run dot slash lamp dot
s H and let her go so we know that right
now it's actually updating apt but I use
that as a way to pause the screen and
it's installing all that junk for us
nice beautiful so what it's doing is
it's getting all that stuff from the
internet I didn't have to figure
anything out
I'm just running the installer which you
saw there is really just an app script
just to simplify things so I don't have
to walk you through all the different
packages that you're gonna need just
keeps thank you so yeah yeah saves this
time so when we come back this will be
finished after the break and we'll be
able to take a look and see what we're
able to do with our new Linux Apache
MySQL PHP server stick around all right
before the break we started setting up
an Odroid n2 as well what we call a lamp
stack in the industry but basically a
web server it's gonna run our websites
on this little tiny single board
computer that we can stick anywhere and
it just needs two cables and then we're
done now one thing I forgot to cover
that I really need to mention as we were
talking about the real-time clock one
thing that I absolutely also need to
check so along with D F dash H I need to
also type date okay make sure your
single board computer because mine has
been plugged in before and as you know
it has a real-time clock so it keeps the
time make sure you type date first
because some of the the installer script
or even the git clone may fail saying
something about SSL Certificates failing
and things like that means you're really
your clock time is set incorrectly
there's also a tool on my blog for that
at bald nerd calm and just do a search
for nerdgasm x' just like it sounds and
you'll see set the Linux time and date
and that's an important tool to be able
to help you to do that
as well if that so that's really a key
thing because all of this would fail if
your clock was wrong okay yeah so this
is finished installing our lamp stack
and as I mentioned when we looked over
the script now it's prompting me to set
up a root password so I want to read
this because it's all very important and
we tend to skim running all parts of the
script is recommended for Maria DB
servers in production use
please read each step carefully in order
to log into Maria DB to secure it we'll
need the current password for the root
user
there isn't one so it's just enter if
you've just installed Maria DB and you
you haven't set the root password yet
the password will be blank so you just
push enter here that's what it says that
is redundant to what I just said maybe I
should just read yeah so enter okay do I
want to set the root password and of
setting the root password ensures that
nobody can log in to Maria DB root user
without the proper authorization
well yes I absolutely want that new
password setting it there we go okay
this is important too by default a Maria
DB installation has an anonymous user
that sounds like bad news for a
production server right so this
anonymous user comes pre-installed so
somebody can log in without having a
user account created for them this is
intended only for testing and to make
the installation go a bit smoother so
you should remove them before moving
into a production environment remove the
anonymous accounts yes all right done
success
normally root users should not be
allowed to connect from the outside of
your localhost okay so this ensures that
someone cannot guess at the root
password from the network what the heck
does that mean okay so if I am standing
in the same network and I'm SSH into
that server I can connect to MySQL as
route via localhost right okay if
however I'm somebody on another in
somewhere else in the world connecting
to my server from outs
of my network and trying to connect to
it by the hostname like whatever dot-com
or the IP address it's gonna say no no
root access is allowed so it's just a
little bit of yeah just solidifies
things so disallow you can't have remote
tech support if something goes wrong
though
no because you can still SSH into it and
then access it through localhost oh okay
but that's it's almost like a you have
to have your SSH access whether it be
strong password encryption
I suggest even having that blocked off
in the firewall by default we are going
to look at hardening this server in two
weeks time possibly next week if there
is time on next week's show we are gonna
look at adding a firewall and talked a
little bit about that as well as well as
lfd log login failure daemon which will
monitor for things like incorrect
passwords on SSH and block IP addresses
based on that so but that is a bit of a
digression ok so do we want to disallow
route log in remotely yes
we only want localhost to be able to log
in as root by default maria DBE also
comes with a database called tests that
anyone can access this is also intended
only for testing and should be removed
before moving into production do we want
to yes success reloading the privileges
table will ensure that all the changes
made so far will take effect immediately
yes done now at any point if you hit no
can you go back and amend these
theoretically yes the script is built
for that however I have experienced
difficulty with that okay so I would
suggest that you just say yes through
the advisable course of action but I
would say yes to every question that it
asks because these are very crucial
security try and trick you they know
they are educating you on why you're
saying yes and now just like my Debian
install which is insecure because it's
using the default username and password
at this point but it is vanilla so it's
now it's clean there's no test databases
there's no test users there is only a
root user and I am the only one who
knows that password
and so it is much more hardened than it
was out-of-the-box so that's ready for
us so now if I do systemctl you don't
have to do this I just want to do this
for the sake of the demonstration status
Maria
DB I can see that it's active running
okay see that in green hit Q systemctl
status apache2 active and running and
our script will have already pre
configured and set up PHP 7.3 as
operational so I'm going to go into CD /
var /ww now keep in mind this folder is
well it looks like hTML is owned by root
so if I go into HTML I have to be root
in order to manipulate this but let's
let's zoom out a little bit here I'm
going to bring up my browser and we're
actually going to connect to that
computer so one sorry 10.0.0.0 ID fault
apache debian page so that is the index
dot HTML file so back at my ssh if I
modify that index dot HTML in VAR WW
HTML we know exactly what's going to
happen there right I'm gonna go down to
the body and here let's just for the
sake of showing you Robby's test page
and then write that out and now over
here
refresh Oh see that's the index dot HTML
file so we also want to know that our
PHP is working so let's actually make a
PHP file touch test dot PHP now if I
edit that file and open a PHP brace
there and we'll type PHP info okay and
write that out now back at my browser if
all went well with our installation
script which was not onerous by any
stretch test dot PHP PHP is running
version seven point
three-point-four - - and we can see it's
running on Linux Debian four point nine
point one eight zero just as we saw
earlier on the show so now this thing is
a real legit web server I can start
uploading my web site to it I can start
serving up web sites from it
all I need to do is just open up port
for port 80 if I want to give access to
non SSL encrypted content or 443 if I
want to start securing things which will
need to set up as well probably with
let's encrypt or something like that
but it's entirely operational and this
thing runs so well cool yeah you can
host WordPress on it yeah you can host
just your own custom files on it you can
you can even if you wanted to you could
just upload let's say I made a directory
make derp test and in that directory I
touch a file
well let's nano a file test dot txt and
hello right so there's just a text file
in a folder called test so if I go into
that folder I can see that this is a
directory tree containing the file test
dot txt so that could be like family
photos that I want to share with my
family it could be anything at all that
I put in here that someone else can
download so now if they see the
directory tree because there's no index
dot PHP or index dot HTML and if I click
on that file it has the file so it says
hello I know it's getting cut off a
little bit on the screen but there you
go so you can almost make your own kind
of Dropbox a little bit yeah you'd be
putting it on that system and anyone who
has the IP address to get to it whether
it be on your land or through the one if
you've got that set up in your firewall
they'll be able to access it it is a web
server that's cool in a single-board
computer with a real-time clock super
cool and it's only as low as sixty-five
dollars let's get our head around that
for a second
sixty-five dollars if you want the 2gig
model
in creditors if you want the four gig
yeah there abouts that's amazing it's
astonishing like this is I come from a
like a universe of you need a $4,000
server like back in the day back in the
day when I was learning all this stuff
it was big it was heavy it was loud it
if you plugged it in your hydro bill is
going up yes like this is what I come
from and now it's like that wowzers
that's awesome
it's awesome now is there a load
capacity for something like this
oh sure so I don't know that I'd ever
hit it well probably not but I mean you
know say you created some amazing blog
and you had a million is a day when it
crash it no I doubt it well I mean you
you could experiment with that am i
concerned if I got that popular on my
hosted solution on here would be the
reads and writes happening on the desk
right right because it's an emmc card I
don't want to have a lot of reads and
writes happening but if that was ever
the case Jeff I would move like slash
var slash log - yeah I could put it on a
nice Guzzi I could put it on an external
device something like that something
that is not reading and writing to that
card all the time and then the card can
just be the the operating system and the
the like the serving up of the software
very cool right
so as benchmark wise I am going to be
providing some really awesome benchmarks
for this board with this particular set
up as a lamp server in the July issue of
Odroid magazine so make sure you you
grab a copy of that app is that issue
and you'll be able to see my MySQL
benchmarks I create over a million
entries within MySQL and benchmark them
and also benchmarking the system itself
so so we'll see how it performs but it's
doing it runs really really well I'm
happy with it
absolutely I think Nichols Cordia I have
it is if we look at giggle score comm so
jumping over there we can see that the
Odroid end to
is in second place for Bob rank which is
the best of both worlds the giggle score
it puts it in 4th place and the lzma
rank which is the multi-threaded
benchmark it's in first place from all
the boards that we currently benchmark
which is 42 boards so so it it does come
2nd on the Bob rank to the Odroid xu4
and that is essentially because the
Odroid xu4 is second place for ELLs at
ma the benchmark itself performance the
giggle score is in third place for the
xu 4 versus the n2 at 4 gigabytes the
giggle score is a little bit higher
because it is you you in context you're
paying a little bit more for the
performance but you're getting a lot
more as well right right so we do need
to weigh that in context but it is
currently at this time in second place
on giggle score calm cool yeah all right
so check them out go to Ameritrade comm
please support those who support us and
Adam AirDroid comm find yourself the
board that's right for you if you have
questions I mean it's a really tough
time to figure out which SBC am I gonna
buy so I want to give you use cases that
are potentially useful yeah right so
this one is gonna be a really nice lamp
stack for sure send in your questions if
you're not too sure which one should I
buy which one is right for my use case
it really comes down to as we're looking
at giggle score comm realizing ok well
these are the the ones that are like top
5 best value for the money Oh droid xu4
Odroid n2 which we're looking at today
the Raspberry Pi 3 model a plus the nano
PI m4 and the Raspberry Pi 3 model B
plus so keeping in mind okay rule
Raspberry Pi is on there twice well
they're the best value for the money in
the top 5 but they do not provide nearly
the performance that you're getting from
this so it's like Wang you need to weigh
all the factors and say ok well we need
really good performance because as you
say if your blog gets popular needs to
still continue running really really
well and not be giving errors
I'm serving up 500 errors on Apache and
things like that so so that's why we
need something a little more powerful
and I would probably if you if you
expect to get big or you serve up a lot
of stuff I would go with the fort gig
model just by default and you're still
sub a hundred bucks with the accessories
so yeah that's fantastic yeah send us an
email live at category-five TV if you
are curious and I mentioned Ameritrade
comm don't forget we have a coupon code
cap 5 TV supporter which will give you a
small discount but also will will lend
some support to category 5 TV as well so
we appreciate you using that all right
we knew we need to head over to the
newsroom if you're ready for I sure
excelent here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom uber has said Australia will
become the first international market
for its flying task taxi service uber
air the retro-inspired Linux powered
Atari VCS gaming console is finally
inching towards general release in
America the United States Department of
Homeland Security's cybersecurity and
infrastructure infrastructure security
agency or sisa has gone public with a
warning into Microsoft Windows users
regarding a critical security
vulnerability and Facebook has finally
revealed the details of its
cryptocurrency Libre which will let you
buy things or send money to people with
nearly zero fees these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
dot TV newsroom covering the week's top
with Linux bias I'm Sasha Rickman and
here the top stories were following this
week
uber has said Australia will become the
first international market for its
flying taxi service uber air the firm
has selected Melbourne as the third
pilot city for its air taxi programme
joining Dallas and Los Angeles test
flights are due to start from 2020 with
the aim of launching commercial
operations from 2023 several companies
are developing flying taxis as a future
mode of transportation
uber said increased air mobility would
help ease traffic congestion in cities
Erik Allison global head of the firm's
aviation division uber elevates says
quote as major cities grow the heavy
reliance on private car ownership will
not be sustainable he goes on to say
uber air holds enormous potential to
help reduce road congestion
end quote he said 19 the 19 kilometers
for Melbourne
central business district to the airport
would take some 10 minutes with uber air
down from up to an hour by car uber is
working with NASA and the US Army on its
flying taxis and has two aircraft
manufacturers Embraer and Pips tral
aircraft also on board last year the
company said it would open a laboratory
in Paris to develop flying taxis uber is
not the only company experimenting with
flying taxis reminiscent of the mode of
transportation in the American cartoon
The Jetsons tech firms are competing to
develop the first viable passenger
carrying sky taxis while Airbus and a
range of startups have also been testing
self flying taxis Dubai conducted its
first test of a drone based taxi service
in 2017 separately a firm funded by
Google founders Larry Page has unveiled
an electric self flying air taxi that
can travel up to 180 kilometers an hour
or 110 miles per hour nice is the future
folks that's it
we will cut down on road construction
costs you figure if they can court
I mean with autonomous vehicles they can
use lidar yes to avoid collisions and
and make them kind of work like like
following tracks if you will not literal
tracks but following the paths that are
laid out yeah and avoiding obstacles and
so move that to the air and it's like if
they just it's like sci-fi if they get
up to speed and they just merge in and
the computer takes care of the rest and
make sure everybody's cool
no bad drivers anymore because if it's
autonomous right I I know that their
this is the way of the future
mm-hmm but I feel like to put a date on
it of oh by 2023 how real is that well
yeah like we have a hard time merging
lanes onto the highway
imagine you're driving and it's like oh
look you know car comes and emerges and
sounds awesome like that's gonna freak
people out I feel like if you're gonna
go down that road to say we're gonna
have air taxi either a it has to be not
available
for driving on a regular road because if
what if it gets double no I couldn't
because if somebody just takes off or
lands like you're gonna throw drivers I
think I don't think it would be an air /
like Road yeah you have to have land
there right and it'll be probably from
pad to pad yeah yeah I would expect so
and I would also think that it wouldn't
be so high as to be called like an
actual aircraft like it's not gonna be
where if you fall you get super damaged
well this is a thing like I know in some
cities although it's traveling 180
kilometers an hour well right but I mean
like you've got some cities where I
think it's is it a hundred meters you're
not allowed to fly lower than for
aviation rules like I think regulations
but we're cat5 is filmed I think it's a
hundred 100 okay hundred meters maybe
cuz I mean you'll see planes fly over
and it's like wow they seem low but
they're quite far I mean if ya you you
know allow for say an uber air that's
under that threshold so that it doesn't
get picked up by air traffic control and
all that kind of stuff like what does
that mean I mean now you're you're
totally maybe 25 feet above a car like
you run it some real issues especially
if it's a sharp turn
like now I would I would think it's as
the bird flies Jeff it's gonna have to
be yeah like it like we take off and
it's gonna be part of the air air
traffic control is gonna know about them
they're not fighting
I think that's gonna freak them right at
Leo know you because they've got air in
the air
I don't but imagine Pearson Airport in
toronto you've got all these planes
coming in janitrol suddenly I've got
these little blip them just flying all
over the place like it's gonna cuz these
days it's all GPS Jeff it's not all it's
not like radar they're not likes no
sorry I think he's picturing so and I
know I'm not picturing Sona but I think
like a broader society impact I think
there's a lot more infrastructure and
social awareness that needs to be
brought in bi oh yeah oh this is a
service we're gonna provide I think
society is not quite ready to integrate
to that kind of service yet I feel like
the warranty on my car like ends in 2023
I can just like start taking an uber
taxi sure uber air taxi and Zipporah
believe me like in in any city where
there's construction yeah like Ontario
Canada where every road is under
construction right now I think there's
only one left hope it's like I'm a
commuter I go to Toronto and I'm and so
I'll sit in traffic for an hour and a
half
well don't lay any more no I I hear you
but imagine all the people that are
gonna go yeah you need to get this in
Toronto because I'm suddenly you've got
yeah you know all these vehicles zipping
everywhere you're gonna have problems I
don't think as a society we're ready yet
the infrastructure is too great to have
like a twenty I would put money on
they're gonna be autonomous because I
don't think people are ready for it but
I think that technology robot I don't I
D I think we need to have more
infrastructure of course but do keep in
mind so as we think of infrastructure
it's a very limited test base right a
few cities basically so they're building
the infrastructure in as they create the
pilot projects so presumably that's part
of the process it's not just put a whole
bunch of things in the air like
they're gonna have to build
infrastructure that can track them and
help the autonomy autonomy vehicle to be
able to to be able to manipulate the the
roads basically the air roads I will say
one thing I am shocked that there isn't
a test city in a colder climate maybe
that's maybe that's on purpose yeah why
did we become a testing city because we
have really good cold winters what we
would like to do but look at Australia I
mean they've got the desert in the
middle where it's crazy hot nothing can
live there essentially it's so nuts but
then you go sorry if you live there
but then you go to the southern fringe
and they do get snow yeah okay so I mean
Australia is pretty broad as far as
weather goes since you first surface
like this and I know we have to go to
the next news story I could see instead
of jumping city to city around the coast
of Australia I could see them going hey
we don't have you know a lot of
straightforward roads that go through
the middle of the whatever the desert in
Australia is called so let's just hop up
to the northern end and then down to the
bottom and I could totally see that
working because it's not as population
dense with buildings and people right
just what are your thoughts because what
are your thoughts big termite I think
it's exciting I like it the
retro-inspired Linux powered Atari VCS
gaming console is finally inching
towards general release in America the
system is on general preorder from Atari
VCS Web Store as well as retail partners
Game Stop and Walmart but you won't get
your console until March those retro
game gaming fans who back to the Atari
VCS crowdfunding campaign on IndieGoGo
won't have to wait quite as long as the
console is expected to ship to backers
in December unlike similar retro
consoles from Nintendo Sega and Sony the
Atari VCS is a living console that's not
limited to the games it ships with it
lets you play classic Atari games but it
also lets you buy and play newer titles
online video streaming from sites like
Netflix will also be available on the
machine this adds some versatility
making the Machine more of a media and
entertainment hub than simply a retro
themed console the base Atari VCS for
features an AMD processor embedded Vega
graphics a 32 gigabyte emmc and 4
gigabytes of RAM it costs it coul $249
with controllers sold separately
the Atari VCS 800 offers the same specs
as the base model but with a dual a
double with double the RAM at 8
gigabytes it sells for 279 dollars again
controllers are sold separately finally
there's an all-inclusive bundle
featuring the Atari VCS 800 and both
modern and retro VCS controllers this
cost three hundred and eighty nine
dollars just to spice things up there
will be exclusive models to hunt down a
gold version sold at Walmart a wood
fronted model exclusive to the Atari Web
Store and a pure black model with red
accents sold at Game Stop the VCS also
lets owners boot and/or install other
Linux distros like Ubuntu and operating
systems from a USB Drive which is handy
if you get bored with what comes in the
box and want to run steam so far there's
no word on any international release
that's awesome I love retro gaming who's
buying one Oh probably me why not for
that price point I think that's pretty
good Jeff come on now don't be a hater
like retro gaming
I love retro gaming but there's cheaper
options out there than three hundred and
eighty-nine dollars
oh yeah like you jump automatically it's
the most expensive one which I also
would be fine 269 or 79 whatever it was
but still like I mean you can go out and
buy a ps4 for 400 bucks but that's not
retro John yes for if you're really
excited about it and then you really
want this - I just have black and red so
it matches your PS I want the form
factor I want that retro look like I I'm
dying to find a vic-20 I really want a
vic-20 I don't care what I'm gonna use
it for right I just and you're gonna pay
out the wazoo to get one at this point
it's gonna be on eBay or something I
just gotta get the shell
yeah but rare yeah that would be a good
idea and stick like a SBC in it oh I
love that idea but here's one that comes
already like it's a computer if I can
all linux on it that's great well
exactly and that that means to me I'm
buying a computer for that and it's got
this sexy retro form factor of an Atari
VCS definitely a big market for this
yeah it's two for three it's two-faced
at 150 bucks I'd be all over right I do
understand that and let you borrow mine
for an investment in half Hoss in
happiness Jeff come on we've discussed
this the United States Department of
infrastructure security agency or sisa
has gone a public with a warning to
Microsoft Windows users regarding a
critical security vulnerability by
issuing the update now warning sisa has
joined the likes of Microsoft itself and
the NSA in warning Windows users of the
dangers from the blue keep vulnerability
this latest warning comes hot on the
heels of a statement from yen of bulma's
the global head of cyber research at
security vendor checkpoint he says quote
it's now a race against the clock by
cyber criminals which makes this
vulnerability a ticking cyber bomb end
quote
Palmas Oh also predicted that it will
only be a matter of weeks before
attackers started exploiting blue keep
the Cecil alert appears to confirm this
stating that it has quote coordinated
with external stakeholders and
determined that Windows 2000 is
vulnerable to blue key end quote that
that it can confirm a remote code
execution on Windows 2000 it might not
sound too frightening this is an old
operating system after all it would be
unwise to Claire classify this as an
exercise in fear uncertainty and doubt
until now the exploits that have been
developed at least those seen in
operation did nothing more than crash
the computer achieving remote code
execution brings the specter of the blue
keep worm into view as it brings the
control of infected machines to the
attacker just under 1 million
internet-facing machines are vulnerable
to blue keep on port 3 3 8 9 used by
the Microsoft Remote Desktop feature but
that's just the tip of this an unsecured
insecurity iceberg these these are a
million gateways to potentially many
millions more more machines that sit on
the internal networks that they lead to
a were mobile exploit it can move
laterally within that network rapidly
spreading to anything and everything it
can affect in fact in order to replicate
and spread here's the real stinger that
it can include machines in an arc Active
Directory domain even if there's no blue
keep vulnerability to exploit the
machine running the vulnerable Remote
Desktop Protocol is merely the gateway
once compromised
we could see an outbreak as widespread
as wanna cry from back in 2017 the NSA
urged Microsoft Windows administrators
and users to ensure that they are using
a patched and updated system in the face
of the growing threat Microsoft's itself
has twice now published warnings about
Luke Keefe including one that was
reported as begging users to update
their windows installations hmm this is
another case of that old computer that
we have running in the back room that
nobody really uses anymore so it's not a
concern and that is a very big concern
right I almost like as you're going
through the news story I'm thinking okay
what do we say about this cuz like oh
that's another one again but I'm
starting to wonder is there not a way
for you know like router developers and
and network companies to develop kind of
an internal firewall system that blocks
between computers so that if one
computer gets infected that it can't
automatically spread to other computers
yep like that would kind of bring this
to a slower development I would think so
you can catch that before it goes nuts
it's called EDR Jeff
and yeah it exists okay I guess just cuz
I use the home router I've never really
paid attention to yeah I'm just I'm
thinking my thoughts how do you people
got to pay for it people have to pay for
security okay but if you if you have
like thousands of computers on a massive
like business network you're gonna want
to pay you would think that but then you
hear about cities and and and speaking
of cities not to point any fingers or
anything like that but we heard about
how cities are pointing the finger at
the NSA and saying okay well this
ransomware got in through eternal blue
eternal blue being the one that was
exploited by wanna cry the NSA exploit
back in 2017 so now isn't it interesting
that the NSA is involved in unveiling
and warning people about this exploit oh
here's another one just like that one
right let's make sure you get patched so
that in hindsight in a retro actively
somebody can't come and say it was your
fault exactly so this could be like
potentially devastating yes so this is
there a way that they could just go in
and brick the systems that don't like
say patch now or we're breaking your
system no they can't cuz they're really
good at not really stirring up yeah if
people if it's the neglect of like
maintaining your system that's gonna
cause this massive problem for everybody
including the people who are taking care
then here's the here's the thing so I'm
looking at he said enterprise inspector
so minimum number of computers is 250
computers and the cost is going to be
about $10,000 for the year in Canadian
dollars computers right we're looking at
38 30 $39 per device so
but that's Canadian yep so that's about
$40 American but so keep that in mind so
it's expensive to protect oneself what
an enterprise inspector or need er
solution does is it monitors the traffic
it monitors the things that are
happening on the network so that it can
proactively block certain types of
activity so here's the problem you have
that old Windows 2000 system that's
susceptible to this exploit and and it
gets compromised now as your story said
but just to kind of I almost dumb it
down a little bit but now that they've
gained access to that that becomes an
entry point for everything else that
they want to do and because it's on the
land
it's a trusted device typically right so
my computer has access to everything on
my network because it's my computer and
I want access to everything on my
network so if some hacker compromises my
computer now they have access to
everything on my network and you don't
even know all the things that you have
on your network I see like see dollar
sign being shared on Windows Samba
within an internal network so your whole
hard drive is just wide open to anyone
on the land right like they ransomware
have fun right so so yeah it's it's
pretty bad so it's it really just comes
down to the money piece can we spend the
money to keep ourselves protected can
you afford to not be protects that's a
great point Sasha Jeff like what what if
a small company so look at some someone
smaller 30 computers right how would
something like that impact a business
that has 30 computers so presumably 30
staff members yeah and think about their
bottom line and okay your your shut down
your entire network is gone all of your
customer data stolen and kill a business
you would probably if the actual event
doesn't destroy your business and cause
you to go bankrupt the lawsuits from
your customers yes
the that will yeah you're done so what's
$10,000 yeah in light of that right
right like like we really have to look
at in in in that perspective so back to
the Stone Age
yeah Facebook has finally revealed the
details of its cryptocurrency Libre
which will let you buy things or send
money to people with nearly zero fees
you'll be able to buy or cash out your
Libre online or at a local exchange
point like grocery stores and spend it
using third-party Wallet apps or
Facebook's own calleb callebaut wallet
that can be built into whatsapp
messenger and the Facebook app it won't
Facebook won't fully control a Libra but
instead just get a vote single vote in
its governance like any other founding
members of the Libra Association
including Visa uber and venture capital
firm and dres and Horowitz each have
invested at least 10 million dollars
into the projects operations the
Association will promote the open source
Libre blockchain and developer platform
with its own move programming language
plus sign up businesses to accept Libra
for payment and even give customers
discount or rewards Facebook is
launching a subsidiary company also
called kelabra that handles its crypto
dealings and protects users privacy by
never mingling your Libra payments with
your Facebook data so it can't be used
for ad targeting your real identity
won't be tied to your publicly visible
transactions but Facebook Calabria and
other founding members of the Libre
association will earn interest on the
money users cash in that is held in
reserve to keep the value of Libra
stable Facebook wants to make Libra the
evolution of PayPal it's hoping Libra
will become simpler to set up more
ubiquitous as a payment method more
efficient with newer with fewer fees
more accessible to the unbanked more
flexible thanks to developers and more
long lasting through decentralization
Facebook rights in its Libre
documentation quote success will mean
that a person working abroad has a fast
and simple way to send money to family
back home and a college student can pay
their rent as easily as they can buy a
coffee and quote mm-hmm
Facebook has the power to make this
happen
yes Facebook has the power to reverse
the damage that's been done to the
cryptocurrency market in the eyes of the
layperson by hackers by ransomware and
things like that because Bitcoin and and
cryptocurrency becomes the hackers
currency so now Facebook doing Libra all
of a sudden it's something accessible to
consumers maybe maybe maybe we'll get
some confidence in the blockchain but do
we
I still have confidence in Facebook well
it's an association though so these as
involved as you mentioned uber and and
some some heavy investors and Facebook
is you know at the technology forefront
of it and and maybe they'll be able to
utilize this technology to move some of
their assets off of the the centralized
model and into decentralization which is
really really could be groundbreaking in
and of itself but also they're
mentioning that they're hoping to
achieve a stable cryptocurrency which is
really really interesting what would
that mean to the cryptocurrency market
because if you here's the problem with
Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies of
today I don't feel confident to buy it
as anything other than a hopeful
investment that it will go up mm-hmm in
value if I were to buy something with my
cryptocurrency my Bitcoin and all of a
sudden it goes from one thousand dollars
to twenty thousand dollars now I just I
just paid two million dollars for my car
right so there's there's so much fear in
using the currency if I accept it as a
payment and it goes from twenty thousand
dollars to $1,000 I just lost everything
and could go bankrupt because of that so
if they're able to stabilize the
cryptocurrency
now all of a sudden it is something
that's viable as for transactions where
businesses will be interested in using
it for purchasing and selling right I
wonder
I mean if it's partnered with these I'm
assuming you'll have a card and I'm sure
yeah it will act like a bank if Wow like
it's an interesting comment the next
evolution of PayPal well we're already
used to electronic currency so
cryptocurrency seems so foreign and so
scary but we're already used to PayPal I
don't have that money it's in their
website and up until a couple years back
there was a MasterCard that was
connected to your account now they cut
that off for Canada which sucks PayPal
sucks in Canada it's terrible it's so
much so that I have switched our
accounts over to pay in here and they
are sending me a MasterCard fantastic
right and Payoneer by the way I'm very
impressed with so far so if you're
interested in them ask me because they
have a referral program where both of us
will get a bonus twenty twenty-five
bucks if you sign up through me so but
so who knows I think that it could it
could change cryptocurrency right I I
took a step back from Facebook yeah yeah
yeah and I don't necessarily want a
facebook but organization if you can
only access it through those like I
wouldn't mind knowing that there would
be like a separate standalone not
through whatsapp not through Facebook
not there are yes I heard party apps
right and they have developer open
source developer base that other people
can develop applications using their
blockchain right so it's all it's all
there it's just that the companies the
Association has the control over the
currency which I believe means that they
control the the generation of the coins
it must mean that like they must have
just like our government controls the
flow of money into the economy like cash
money
they must be controlling the flow of
cryptocurrency in order to keep it as a
stable market there's that like how else
would they do it right okay so that
brings me to my concern make it quick
I've got to get on to the cryptocurrency
report you know okay if they want to
stabilize it there's all these
multinational companies their
shareholders in it all it takes is a
quick decision of hey you know what
let's drop the value of it you do that
no I understand that but there's more at
play within the stock market because
this is not within the stock market
you're throwing a whole nother element
of having corporate control over a
currency based system that potentially
has global implications and if they
decide to go belly-up or cause any
issues the whole economy that's built
upon it goes and drops too so to say
they've decentralized it is only half
true
it may be decentralized but it still
conglomerate lis owned so that there is
the risk of it going belly-up save use
it goes man it can't go belly-up it's
decentralized it's not possible but what
they can change is the value of the
currency but that's I'm talking about
all they have to do is go oh we've made
a bad business decision and the value
goes cheap and it just drops out there's
so many issues with this and the fact
that it's Facebook I instantly go I'm
not going to touch it especially when
they go oh we're gonna protect your data
yeah okay we have to see where the value
in Libra comes from whoo-hoo how is the
value created Bitcoin it's through the
the its the mining process and how many
coins are there that's where the value
comes I am looking forward to it being
added to your crypto report it's already
there Sascha is it it is at a value of
$0 today because it doesn't exist yet
Bitcoin however is up and this is again
talking about that stability of the
market Bitcoin has gained 1056 dollars
in the past week so it's up to nine
thousand one hundred sixty one dollars
and 74 cents u.s. litecoin is at
138.236.128.7
also gaining everything's game this week
other than Facebook Libre Libre excuse
me that's the first time that's ever
happened live which is amazing on 12
years I've never sneezed on air thank
you litecoin again 138 72 aetherium is
at two 6809 Manero is at ninety nine
eighty gaining ten bucks and a little
bit more torque is at zero point nine
five ten thousandth of a cent and turtle
coin at zero point pardon me at one
point three six ten thousandth of a
second point thirty nine do remember if
you're going to invest or play around
with the cryptocurrency market it never
closes and is always volatile big thanks
to Roy W Nash in our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight lenox bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson and I'm Jeff Weston
[Music]
welcome back to category five technology
TV exciting things on the horizon like
well now I'm really under pressure I
just I wanted to talk about what happens
when a centralized service goes down
exciting things like what happens when a
centralized service goes down Rob take
away this week and this month has been
ridiculous Google Google I know has gone
down twice okay think about that I've
heard about it going down twice now I
have yet to have experienced it right I
experienced that when the phones ring
Jeff so here's the here's the issue
right okay your job because I'm in IT
yeah so the phone starts ringing because
customers have not not by our own
recommendations but have started moving
services a lot of people are using like
G suite for email right you know using
Gmail for your business email so you're
and as a matter of fact I use Gmail for
category 5 TV so any email goes through
Gmail well if Gmail goes down I lose
access to my email but here's what
happened this week Google Calendar went
down now we have a situation now where
businesses and lots and lots of
businesses they use Google Calendar and
what does it mean when they have no
access to any of their appointments
missed meetings mmm who knows right lost
revenue you missed yeah missed I mean
stuff I know I'm just a small like
person in the whole situation by talking
about your height I use my Google
Calendar for my work shifts and then on
each work I track my kilometres well I
just added into my notes on my Google
Calendar so that later when I'm going to
log my kilometres I just go in oh I
drove 50
that day so like I use Google Calendar
for a life organization sure it said I
have my reminder set up through there my
tasks everything if Google Calendar went
down dead which it did yeah but somehow
it didn't affect me which I'm confused
by but if it went down for any amount of
time I don't know what I do cuz I trust
it to stay there and be exactly so and
you think about Google as a
decentralized business you think of it
as a cloud-based service that will never
go down well we've seen this month that
it happened twice and Google Calendar
going down man like that's devastating
to a business if I didn't have access to
my calendar I would be lost like my
calendar is like a list this is my list
for the day and it would be nuts if I
didn't know what was going on or who I
was supposed to call at what time what
service calls I was doing what remote
accessing I was supposed to be doing at
whatever time and it could be
potentially devastating to my business
as well so a little tip for you if you
found yourself affected by that and
maybe this is how you got around it if
you use the app now with this particular
service issue the outage was in fact
there web services so through the
browser so if you were accessing it
through the web browser going to
google.com and clicking on your calendar
right if you have the app on your phone
then you would presumably have still
been able to access it that's exactly
how for me yeah there you go
so so if that ever happened again and it
was brutally affecting your day you
could hopefully if it was the same issue
not that it will ever happen again but
if you use the app you should be able to
access it because it's different ports
different service but that's that was
the workaround this time around but
because it happened and nobody was ready
for it and Google was being they still
haven't told us what happened not being
transparent which ya something tripped
over the cable and the server back in
the foundation of my confidence with it
like now I'm just like a little
I can deal with service outage I can't
deal with data breach so so did I it
happens yeah
like but now who's good at is that it
just reveals to us that even if we're
working with such a huge company as
Google there is the potential to go down
so we need to be prepared for it and
it's not about printing your calendar
every day but maybe synchronizing your
out iCal file or you know do again your
backups as I have talked about Google
Drive offline well if Google Drive ever
went down at least I'd be able to access
my most recent stuff on my laptop
because I have Drive offline and which
is another reason it's important for me
to get chrome working on the pine book
because I want to have that offline so
that all these considerations it's like
wow even though I always have access to
it what if it went down what if it was
actually down and it doesn't never
happen it happened twice this month so
yeah well could be could be but that's
all the time that we have for this week
everybody thank you so much for everyone
who has pitched in this week be it
through patreon or through shopping with
any of our partners we we greatly
appreciate and and and basically we're
able to do this because of your
contributions that's how we're able to
pay the rent and all the bills that we
that we have here as you can imagine
they're they can be fairly high and so
if you if you supported us this this
week I appreciate that very very much
and I thank you we are on Twitter at
category-five TV you can also follow me
personally at Robbie Ferguson we're on
YouTube as you can imagine category five
technology TV or head on over to Linux
tech show comm sorry and or you need to
kick me every time I say or you need to
subscribe to both category five
technology TV and Linux tech show
because with that subscription it's the
category five technology TV that's gonna
ding you when we are live and it's the
other one Linux tech show that's going
to ding you when we post little videos
so you want to subscribe to both of
those we're also on Roku's a channel
store so you can install us through that
you can get us on Plex or Kodi through
our github which is cat5 TV
and our main website ties everything
together we've got our assess feeds and
access on google podcasts and everything
else that is category 5 TV thank you
everybody for watching have a great week
[Applause]
