covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias Microsoft has finally
released Windows 10 version 2004 also
known as the Windows 10 May 2020 update
and promptly warmed users not to install
it the update adds new security features
and fixes for previous cumulative
updates to Windows 10 but it also
includes a plethora of bugs and issues
this time around even Microsoft has
warned users not to install the update
as it's causing severe problems like the
blue screen of death or your system
might also fail to restart after
installing the update after installing
the update windows 10 devices may be
unable to connect to more than one
Bluetooth device another bug causes
Mouse input to stop functioning and
another makes it so variable refresh
rate no longer works in most games
especially those using direct x9
always-on devices such as your network
adapter might cause the computer to
restart randomly and other issues may
result in a blue screen of death
needless to say this is a bad situation
for Microsoft and could be catastrophic
for those who are stuck working from
home right now without access to an IT
department to fix a botched update
Microsoft has already started working on
the problems and we expect a new update
to the update by mid-june in order to
safeguard your PC you should avoid
installing this update however if you
already installed it you can honest to
uninstall it to enjoy a more stable
version of Windows 10 if you're sick of
the nonsense head on over to linux mint
comm for a free permanent fix
