this is you every day with Jeff Weston
screws oh my goodness who is that you're
just so used to doing this on your own
are you kidding me friends I'm so sorry
there's a there's someone here I'm not
used to this it's good to be back my
first episode in a very long time I
think it's not a month and a half now
I've been off just uh the busyness of
life and work has kept me away how are
the rentals in the North Pole are they
good
yeah they're good my igloos all built
that's good that must be a big igloo
buddy so glad to be back so good to be
here love the last couple episodes lots
of good stuff challenging material you
know for people to really kind of think
about and chew on and it was it was good
it was a good time for sure I don't mind
telling you it's good having you back
it's better when you're here I think
but yeah lots of fun either way and I
think we're gonna have some fun again
tonight I like so - I think so so when
we were planning today's show we're
talking about Akkad's
you know beginning of the new year sort
of we're coming at the end of the month
now and this is usually the point when
people realize that their goals for the
year have long fallen off the rails and
the diet still starts tomorrow like what
was I it was a good idea on December
31st
exactly so speaking of New Year's goals
did you have any or do you have any do I
have any new year's goals well actually
boy you you've caught me flat-footed
yeah my goal was to get everybody else
to write gold actually it's been very
good it's a matter good that is the
truth there's been people who have come
in to me saying hey Laurence I'd like to
share these goals with you and you know
and I'm like hey this is very good and
then my wife she leaned into me recently
saying excuse me mister
how about you and so yeah it is it is
good well I as a matter of fact I'm
doing very well
on one of them quick and waking up well
well no well actually no and I am doing
good at waking up I did that wasn't a
goal I'm not I'm not that far along yet
yeah someone said to me this week though
just just waking up every day is a good
day now that man's well into his 70s oh
yeah there you have it but I'll tell you
one of the things that my wife and I did
purpose to do and the reason why I
hesitated is it wasn't really related
necessarily to New Year's okay
but it happened to be very close to the
time so I'll just squeeze it in like it
was how about hot but it's not the New
Year's issue as much as it was I've been
on again and off again with this thing
called journaling oh yeah you know
exactly that's kind of how I feel and I
don't mind doing it but for whatever
reason it's just like yeah I don't need
to do that I got it or whatever and then
well we were encouraged by a man who we
would look to as our spiritual father to
journal each of us independently okay
and then once a week just get together
on purpose to discuss hey what stood out
to you this week in your time with the
Lord and anything that you want and I
don't mind telling you it's been
fantastic really you're enjoying
enjoying it all very much so it's great
well I think I just like the fact Jeff
I'd be like you and probably most of you
who are watching that you know if you
say to someone you're gonna be there
then you like to show up right exactly
so I mean we just committed to it nobody
was twisting our arm it's not rocket
science but the fact that I've given my
word to my wife I mean I don't I don't
want to show up flat-footed right of
course yeah you know she's probably the
best person in the world I could do it
too because she's gonna love me anyway
but you might be on the couch alright so
at any rate it's all good it's like no
this is so then to get up in the morning
and you know make the coffee but first
thing I go to is my Bible and I crack
open the journal and just by virtue of
doing that I like I'm just actively
paying attention to what I'm reading
okay a little more than perhaps if my
mind would drift I mean it's delicious
you know that right yes and so and you
know and then the text coming into so at
one point I turned off all the
notifications because I was reading on
my phone the Bible and the phone app and
yeah so it's really good but then just
think oh this is cool but to listen to
my wife and what she's been learning I'm
telling you what it's like just knock my
socks off now that I love Jeff you know
I love listening to your wife speak
about you know how God inspires her and
the things that really kind of yeah get
her moving ya know spiritually speaking
so I can only imagine be good chat yeah
and it's not like she's this you know
world-traveled speaker it has nothing to
do with that right it's just more like
oh yeah it's a nice day out and yeah God
mentioned this and I'm listening to her
going like like hello why haven't we
been doing this for like thirty years
writing right yeah well exercise well
and I know the answer to that because we
weren't married thirty years ago well
for my wife and I we have a goal
collectively and that is to be free of
debt now not to be debt-free because we
still have our mortgage and you know
there's always going to be some sort of
you know debt in life not that I like to
be bound to it but our God has asked us
to be free of debt and what that means
is that our finance is at the end of the
month are more than what went out okay
so just finding ways to kind of you know
shave off some spending so that there's
always extra money at the end of the
month that if God says I want you to do
this we're free to do that because
there's nothing more frustrating than
God going hey I want you to do this and
you're going but there's nothing like we
spent it all on you
very disobedient and almost unwilling so
to speak to to obey his leading it's in
some days it is hard to trust and so
he's really stretching us on trust and
he's saying look I want you to live free
from debt so that you have money that I
can use to my glory well so ok that's a
big one and you know our big thing is we
don't want to fall flat on our face for
2019 and trying to do that so we're
trying to be faithful to God and and on
a personal front you know I am still
going to the gym yeah once every two
weeks I've got to pick that up but my
goal by the end of the year is to be
able to lift my weight in whatever my
exercise is so if it's leg presses just
a lot of things going through my yeah
like if I'm gonna do you know crunches
or whatever if I'm using machines that
the weight that I use would be equal to
my weight that's my goal to build up to
the end of the year so that's very cool
and I've seen it done you'll be able to
exceed that easy
well if I work at it yeah and if I don't
I try it tomorrow like no it definitely
like seriously can we could get hurt
well I've already done it with the legs
I mean I'm not the point of 400 pounds
with legs which is good Wow but when it
comes to you know the the bicep curl I'm
going all 70 pounds is killing me I am a
weakling you know Schwarzenegger is
going I would not be back you know but
that's my goal and so in order to assist
me and not having to lift as much I'm
venturing to lose weight as well
oh so it's a two-tier Oh kind of like a
push and a pull here yeah exactly I
don't have to lift as much if I lose so
yeah I mean I'd love to be able to say
yeah I curled 260 pounds yeah but I
would rather say I curled you know 190
yeah so are you kidding like if you well
that's a lot of weight either way
absolutely this so that's Phantom this
year ends my goal is that you won't be
able to fit on camera because I'd be
buff
exactly but the whole point of this
conversation is goals it's new year's
goals just life goals it doesn't even
have to be tied to New Year's but what
is it that is your goal maybe it's
something that started years ago and
you're going I fell flat on my face I
didn't complete it or I kind of put it
up on the shelf and went ah what I'm not
as busy I'll work on it
maybe it's writing a book maybe it's you
know renting room in your house whatever
it might be maybe it's something
spiritually relating getting closer to
God and so we what we want to talk about
today is some steps to achieving your
goals
just some practical advice that will
hopefully by the end of the year you'll
be able to go man those guys on you
everyday they're really smart they help
me achieve this and if it didn't work
you didn't hear hear
well we can read a lot of good
information from some very smart people
absolutely and we have dialogue with
some people who have said it was
actually amazing some information that
we're gonna share we've shared already
and it really seemed to be profitable I
was quietly I don't know if I told you
like I've heard good reports on the
stuff we're about to share so this is
good and it's not rocket science no it's
not it's kind of like the idea of having
an exercise in your basement a lot of
people at this time of the year say oh
I'm gonna get when they buy one but it's
no good if it just sits there and you
don't use it it's not a fish tank that's
usually yeah
that's usually the way it is and I
remember a quote one time this is
related now it's not about the you know
the treadmill but someone says someone
who can read and doesn't is no better
off than the person who can't that's
true
isn't that a incredible yeah quote
someone who can read but doesn't is no
better off than the person who can't
write oh and I remember hearing that
years ago man and it was all related to
like Lawrence for heaven's sakes it's
what what are you doing just talking
about what you can do who cares right
because if you're not doing it it
amounts to nothing so how about you get
moving and then I had to realize not to
beat myself up not to have to do it
perfectly and not be discouraged if I
didn't do it perfectly but at least just
to get started and then I find once I'm
actually doing it and I'm enjoying it
then that motivates me to want to keep
on going and actually get a little bit
better and I'm enjoying the journey
altogether so yeah that's that's uh
that's that's my story a part of it
that's a good story I think so alright
so we're going to take a quick break and
then when we come back we're gonna dive
right into those little tips top you
achieve your goals this year stick
around for more from new every day for a
limited time get your hands on limited
edition shirts from the category 5 TV
network these high-quality shirts are
manufactured by teespring a fundraising
website and your purchase will help
support the shows we produce get yours
today and send us your pictures to be
featured on the corresponding show visit
cap 5 dot TV slash shirts to support us
and get your official network shirt
today
cap five dot TV slash shirts
[Music]
welcome back to new every day we are
talking goals no not sports goals we are
talking life goals spiritual goals
whatever that thing is you've wanted to
achieve and the smart guy over here has
got some tips
yes exactly talking to the brick wall
we've got your little points to help you
achieve your goals so that you don't
fall flat on your face and it kind of
helps you just keep moving so this this
outline I happen to receive from an
email blast that I've signed up to from
a man that many of you have heard of his
name is Rick Warren ok good guy alright
and so the outline that we're talking
about comes from one of his emails but
this is good here's this isn't that
there's four key points that we can talk
about four steps if you will about how
to accomplish your 2019 goals but as a
precursor to these four here here was
the idea laid down in the email well
here's a good idea do it now how about
getting started yeah so when are you
gonna do well I'm gonna get to it I'm
gonna get to it like procrastination man
woo I was the king of it for years then
I do Thrones you yeah yeah thank you I
appreciate that and it's just like and
then I realized it was a lot of fear
inside of me that was pushing things
away and I thought oh my goodness so
doing it now is a good thing and of
course that's a biblical truth to do it
now
and the book of Ecclesiastes it's not
ecclesiastics but ecclesiastical it
urger in the Bible like a like proverbs
but in Ecclesiastes chapter 11 and verse
for the Living Bible translation says
this if you wait for perfect conditions
you will never get anything done
true story now isn't that so wise so
simple and so true mm-hmm and I found it
was convenient at times well I don't
think in this novel and you know it
almost became too you know an excuse and
I could put stuff off right what
evening for everything to be just no no
no no it's not gonna be that way
hey get going and work the plan while
you're on the move right right it's the
exact same as the thought process
everybody who doesn't try fails yeah
yeah there you go that's right like the
guy on the golf course yeah every putt
hit that short is still too short that's
right okay so number one number one step
to achieving your goals would be clarify
your goals there's okay yeah right yeah
like hey what do I want to do right and
that makes sense I mean how many people
go I want to get in shape
well are we talking round or are we
talking about a triangular shape are we
like what are we talking about yeah you
know and it's you know putting a
definition to your goal if I want to
write a book what is your book yeah I
want to build something what are you
building is it an arc it's been done
yeah well there's a great template to
clarifying goals and this is also from a
verse in the Bible Luke chapter 2 and
verse 52 and this is a life theme verse
of my family actually my wife and I
bought a Bible for our son when he was a
teenager on the front cover it was
called it said 252 and it's from this
book this verse in the Book of Luke Luke
2:52 Jesus grew and here it is wisdom
and stature and favor with God and favor
with man all right
wisdom stature favor with God favor with
man and there you have an amazing
four-pronged template if you will to
help you and I clarify our goals
and what do I mean by that well what's
what's wisdom that's your intellectual
goals okay so what do you want to do
with the slush yeah you know with your
noggin I remember a message one time
your what's the noggin factor I called
it but you know what do you want to do
do you know I know two men who have
their goal to read why
hundred books in this year okay yeah it
that that's significant Matt's that's
what like a book every three days I
guess he put it out there one of them
said anybody want to join me and I'm
like you know initially I was like you
know what I'd like to support this guy
and get in the game and he could spur me
on and then I did the calculation like
you just did I said are you kidding I
couldn't do it off the dr. Seuss books
yeah one pagers good big print box
inside yeah we could do that but
intellectual goals what do I want to
learn my own wife is a nurse and she
actually was one of the people who wrote
her goals down and said I'd like to show
you these and give them to you because I
had offered that I would pray for people
who would share their goals with me and
so I've got a number of people who have
done that and my wife actually referred
to something at work she says I wanna I
want to learn all the medicine and the
medications relative to this dot dot dot
dot she goes I want to be more
proficient at it not that it's dangerous
or she's not doing anything that's not
right but she just wants to be sharp
right and I thought that's an amazing
goal Wow and so I'm joining her in
prayer and I'll be able to dialogue and
say how is that going and she'll be able
to talk about you know the journey and
she'll be you know stretching her mind
that's cool growing intellectually how
cool is that hmm yeah okay so we move
along clarify your goals
next would be your physical goal so
Jesus grew in wisdom and in stature so
stature he grew so that's just that's
like a boy who grows up right young girl
you just feed them and they grow yes
exactly they're healthy so but it but
the principle is like what can you do
with your physical body how can I
improve my health yes okay and so
basically it usually comes down to two
things right diet and exercise exactly
yeah and and so guys stop shoveling it
in and if you turn off the lights the
problem does not go yeah yeah there you
go right so that's in wisdom stature
clarify your physical goals how can I
improve my health okay here was the next
one
spiritually Jesus grew in wisdom stature
favor with God now there is just the big
check this out Jesus himself the son of
God grew in his favor with his heavenly
father like anything I mean at the end
of the day he had to be obedient he was
an and and you know was faced with all
the sins that man faced and so his
entire life up to the point of even
submitting to death on the cross was a
challenge in obedience right so yeah
totally makes sense it does make sense
you know and so what a perfect example
for us and so if Christ himself you know
who was sinless and he he spent time to
develop his spirituality mmm-hmm well
what how much more are you and I right
and we get to yeah and so there you go
so the question how how do I deepen my
relationship with God the number one
thing for me read the Bible it's good
start that's a great start hey yep and
then now interesting or you might have
other things that you would add to that
or something that you would do you know
but you know for me it's like say hey
read the Bible and not so okay I did it
but actually for me okay just pause a
bit and the biblical word is meditation
like take some time to be pensive and
think about what does this mean
contemplate it so what that's the
question I asked myself when I'm
journaling so what like what does how
does that apply to me right mm-hmm and
then to do that there's times where I
don't want to leave it's really awesome
no I I agree I'm I'm learning to be
silent I'm the kind of guy where I'm
always looking for the next thing I'm
always doing something there's always
something to fidget with I don't do well
with silence and so for me it's it's
reading scripture or listening to it on
my you know you know through the audio
book and then I'm going to okay God talk
to me about it and just trying to be
silent and not you know overthink it and
just go God what are you saying and
sometimes that's where it's the most
profound stuff that comes out yeah and I
just love it I could feel it when you're
saying
and that's good you're reminding me of a
book I read in 1986 the youth pastor of
my church put this like amazing
discipleship program together and one of
the books was called the celebration of
discipline by the author Foster is his
last name and it's it's a it's an oldie
but a goodie as they say if some of you
are interested in reading and sharpening
your spiritual skills if you will you
could consider reading a book and it
talks about silence okay and it talks
about you know the the value that
discipline of being pensive and it's a
game changer man it's awesome yeah okay
so spiritual goals how do I deepen my
relationship with God and and then we go
number four social goals stature with
favor with God now favor with man how
can I serve other people more
effectively that's a massive question
that most people do not ask yeah I'd say
you're right and I confess when I used
the template that question didn't even
come up for me because it was more about
hey man who can I invite to go out and
socialize with which is beneficial
yeah and it's Who I am and I actually
think it's valuable but I didn't even I
didn't even think of that question
probably because it's not natural for me
to want to do it either right fair
enough and saying you're a very you know
gregarious outgoing person I'm very
internal very introvert and so the whole
idea of people you know exhausts me like
I like my quiet time I like to just kind
of recharge by myself so the idea of
going how can I serve other people it's
like there's my comfort zone oh the
window yeah soon as the about soccer
okay but when I've done it yeah boy do
you feel so good
yeah that's good yeah that is cool man
okay so you know what I'm like as usual
I've gotten like the four things that's
the template number one goal was clarify
them so what do you want to do what what
don't you want to do anymore take some
time actually one author suggested maybe
take a half a day to get away and kind
of say like what talk to someone who
knows you what do you think and they say
know your passion
about this you might want to spend some
time so clarify them and then so that
number two is numbers two step is write
your goals down and make make them SMART
okay heard that no smart specific
measurable achievable relevant and time
sensitive boom okay pretty cool huh so
that works with the goal of waking up
specific it's measurable it's
time-sensitive yeah and very relevant
yeah that's right there you go and
friends if if any of you well you can
rewind this so if you can or whatever
you're gonna ask us we'll get them to
you we might even be able to throw
something up on a screen to let you see
those and what its excellent yeah number
three then alright is get support from
others what I'm not to do it alone yeah
accent oh man okay so okay there's a
quote I could quote you on that
Jeff Weston says we're not meant to do
it alone well that's funny thing that's
like a guy named Harvey Brooker so we
listen to and I listened to a news
station it's an all all news channel
here in the GTA yeah the Greater Toronto
Area and one of the commercials that
comes on there's from a guy named Harvey
Brooker have you heard it I know he is a
weight loss coach and it always comes
out at this time of the year and he
makes this statement if you could have
done it alone you would have done it
already
Oh exactly
I heard that years ago and absolutely
loved it and I and I wrote it down then
and I've saved it for messages like this
like it's awesome yeah if you could have
already so what we need help and thank
God we have help absolutely speaking of
which number four is ask God for help
that makes sense
hey how about that hey so yeah I mean
and God is here to help us and then he's
gonna instruct you to do things like
okay clarify it write it down you know
don't do it alone and talk to me about
it when you get up in the morning and
your your journaling let me know how you
feel God's more than willing to come and
help us accomplish these things oh great
we just made your
year how do you like that I think it is
oh if your goals have fallen off the
rails or maybe you're going I haven't
even thought about goals then take these
tips these four tips and apply them and
apply them out you'll be glad you did
and let us know if you find that it
works good for you we'd be thrilled to
hear from you absolutely all right
thanks so much for joining us have a
wonderful wonderful week catch a new
episode of new everyday every Friday
morning at new every day TV
we're also on roku Kodi Plex YouTube
Google Play Music podcasts and Facebook
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
you
