covering the week stop text alerts like
Linux bias the Pentagon says it can
explain three previously leaked videos
of supposed UFOs and the explanation is
simple they are real and they're still a
total mystery
the US government Declassified three
top-secret videos of unexplained aerial
phenomena on Monday confirming that
clips that first surfaced in 2017 are
legitimate that's not to say that the
UFOs are not of this world but that the
Pentagon is unable to identify the
objects seen flying in the videos word
Wizards are making the connection
unidentified flying objects UFOs the US
Navy has officially released the footage
pentagon spokesperson sue GAO said on
monday but this is to clear up any
misconceptions by the public on whether
or not the footage that has been
circulating was real or whether or not
there is more to the videos she said
after a thorough review the Department
has determined that the authorized
release of these unclassified videos
does not reveal any sensitive
capabilities or systems and does not
impinge on any subsequent investigations
of military airspace incursions by
unidentified aerial phenomena in other
words the objects are not theirs the
announcements the announcement is more
of indication for Tom DeLonge the
blink-182 band member and alien
enthusiasts who release the videos to
the New York Times in 2017 through his
UFO research organization to the Stars
Academy of Arts and Science while the US
Navy didn't acknowledge the videos when
they first serviced in 2020 2017 Joe
grand asure spokesperson for the Deputy
Chief of Naval Operations for
information warfare confirmed they are
real in an interview with CNN last
September saying the Navy designates the
objects contained in these videos as on
of an unidentified aerial phenomenon new
ApS grad grad asure said at the time
that transparency around the sightings
was important so that pilots won't feel
ashamed to report something that could
be dangerous for many years our aviators
didn't report these incursions because
of the stigma attached to previous
technology and theories about what may
or may not be in those videos all three
videos are now available to the Penn
Dawkins reading-room the Pentagon did
not release any additional footage or
content along with the three clips but
it has stoked a flurry of excitement
among UFO enthusiasts with its simple
acknowledgement that the videos are
legitimate the truth is out there
[Music]
