welcome to the coffee break everybody it
is Friday the 15th I know the 16 nope 17
17 Wow
it is actually the 17th of April how are
we at the 17th of April like for for the
fact that you know normally when you're
just sitting around doing nothing it
feels like time is just dragging on and
on but no not this month this it's just
been going by at least that's it's my
perspective yeah it's cuz we're not just
sitting around doing nothing in my case
I'm still working you know did I now
same it's still same old same old
so yeah different today York your office
but I'm at the house yeah but I'm not
like going to the grocery store and
doing you know it's shops and normal
day-to-day life stuff I'm just basically
getting in the car coming to work going
home and repeat how's the traffic
traffic pretty pretty much nothing right
nothing yeah Sharon Barry I think you
know and you get to the city I guess you
know we haven't seen Sasha in ages yeah
I probably shouldn't ask because they're
not be creepy so I thought now I've been
enough yeah I couldn't hear you before
but I can I can hear you now no friendly
so what I was saying was I was just
thinking about you I'm wondering if you
were going to show up and I'm so glad
you did
because I was thinking should I ask
grubby about Sasha but that would be too
creepy so I better not let me talk let
me tell you the last time I did coffee
breaks was the last time I had a day off
yeah so now I have today off and I'm
back
thank you funny thing is if if ep9 had
have asked me you know how you're doing
or what like I be like well I don't know
any more than you do such a weird time
like I haven't Sasha when was the last
time I haven't seen you since the move
right exactly yeah and even then that
was after a couple weeks of
self-isolation and not being able to
interact so it's so strange yeah but I
mean now things are really kicking into
high gear because I have the day off
because I have quit my job so that we
can move to Newfoundland so I thought
she was gonna say I quit my job so I
could be here for the coffee break
that's right of course
it's yeah so it's exciting to be back
and I've had a really hard time because
I haven't really been able to be on this
court even and it's been so strange to
feel this Connecticut like I yeah so
you're still in a house full of boxes in
structure are you still in a house full
of boxes yes I even I've picked up I
even picked up more moving boxes because
it turns out you can never have enough I
thought that we were all done packing
and then I realized no we still have
some stuff Sox's like do you need any
from the studio as I unpacked it I think
we're good now to be honest I the things
that I have to pack now are like the
last little nitty gritties like the
sounds weird but my my bread maker you
know that
no date okay so Dave I'll tell you Dave
is amazing at keeping the boxes for
everything so anything that dave has
purchased he has the styrofoam he has
the receipt he has the box I am a
different person everything that I
bought I like I destruct the word on
everything I've popped all the bubbles
in my bubble wrap I've destroyed all
styrofoam recycle and I couldn't find a
receive save my life so my stuff all
needed new boxes but I could say relate
to words I can so relate your husband
saying yes they keep all the boxes I
keep all the boxes see and I'm I'm the
guy who when he packs up to move his
studio realizes oh I still have all
these boxes so what we used a lot of
boxes I used a lot of boxes from just
product and stuff like that just because
not because I'm good like Dave but
because I don't do my recycle often
enough well I said to my was like I'm
going to do coffee break in the bedroom
which let me tell you that the bedroom
is that's a loose term now and he said
oh no you can go in the living room but
the funny thing is like the living room
has like just the TV and the couch at
this point too and then I have another
zoom meeting after the coffee break with
one of my friends who I haven't seen in
ages and I'll tell you like I need to
get way better at joining zoom meetings
because I tried to train this one and
was in a full-body sweat
was so nervous that I was gonna miss it
I don't understand I just need to state
the passwords now it's not a big deal
and it's pretty nice to protect because
people were actually scrolling through
the numbers and then joining and like
posting pornography and stuff like that
in zoom meetings so hiring yes and now
they're requiring passwords so remove it
yeah that's not seeing it's not a zoom
thing Zoomer took action right away and
start and and said okay well if people
are gonna abuse it like this we're gonna
enforce you have to have a password
that's where I said like Oh companies
that jump on the remove it bandwagon
it's like just give them a week to catch
up because this is nuts nobody saw this
coming
everybody's alright now almost missed
the meeting because I'm in the basement
working on a PC I said well the clock is
wrong what time is it one tip if I can
give you one tip because Sasha and I are
using the same Bluetooth headset turn on
your Bluetooth headset before opening
zoom and then that way it's all
connected and then you just push the the
join audio and it will work ok saves a
little bit of frustration thank you the
other thing I don't know whether you saw
that there was a news article that half
a million zoom accounts got got got
hacked yeah I did see that yeah yes if
that is but again it's it falls into the
category of news spinning toward the
control and I don't know why yeah
I can if I wanted to brute force any
service and and glean passwords or if I
wanted to trick people with a phishing
attack hmm it's like people don't
understand the the nature of these
attacks so is it a compromise of zoom No
it's a social engineering attack and
that's what I wasn't sure I did that
many people that many people fall for a
social engineering attack and then they
label it as zoom you compromise know if
you look closely it's the zoom accounts
that were compromised not to do itself
and they just lost Oh
during this past week in all the emails
that I get which are usually all
work-related I very rarely get spam or
junk mail
but then something popped up that looked
very weird and it was about Kovac right
at sea you know click this link to to
see the latest covert safety no this
isn't right this is just not right and
once he went I teach you to do is to
hover over the link not quickest acid
hopper over it to see where it takes you
and it took me it would have taken me
somewhere very strange so I finally just
clicked on the on the on the reports
fishing buttons that's built into our
client and it ground away you know how
windows change that little lamb has that
little spinning thing that it thinks
about that's also it's a work piece see
I gotta run Windows those there is it is
what it is right but they said yes well
done you have you've correctly
identified a phishing attempt that was
placed it was a test from our info
Security Department hey way to go buddy
attention yeah so it said well done you
did exactly the right thing
good job yeah I was happy that they did
that because so many people could fall
for that it took me a while to say this
is look it just looks strange it doesn't
you know my company does that all the
time but I am NOT I know I know but it's
a good thing marsh man I know it is
geeks it's a pain in the butt but it's
important it's important to keep people
trained up so I'm just happy well and we
live in a world though where mo
computer users are not geeks most
compared users don't really understand
what's going on under the hood yes so
it's important to testing absolutely
I've received in the last week I've
received three emails of people saying
that we know your password yeah and oh
we also know you've read this because
we've inserted a pixel in the email so
we know you've read it I'm like a pixel
a picture
[Laughter]
don't try it yeah get back to us but we
want to thousand dollars worth of
Bitcoin now it's funny I've got three
and three of these emails from three
different people with the exact same
email three pixels in your computer yeah
yeah but it's funny because they say
they injected something and they watched
me download porn and we we hijacked your
webcam until this coffee break I never
had a webcam we and by the way they say
it's important though that folks realize
that the reason that that those emails
are coming through is because if some of
the people go oh right right oh yeah I
was looking at porn oh yeah I do have a
webcam right and also they click the
link and they fall for it and now what
does it make me do it ask them to log
into their zoom account right it's
probably partially legit because they
they showed
made the password they have and that was
a password I used maybe five seven years
ago on sir found that I know got at so
they did get my credentials but they got
your email address and they got your
password right which was immediately
disabled and I changed it so it's like
yeah you can have that password that
seven iterations old and that's that's
the nature of a spear phishing attack so
if you want you know if anyone's
watching this on demand and thinking
well I don't want to fall victim to that
look for spear phishing just do a search
for it and that will tell you what what
that kind of attack is where they have
enough information to trick you into
thinking that this is legit what I like
about using LastPass and probably other
password managers to Bill is that when I
had that similar thing happened where
one of these old passwords from eight
years ago came up in one of those emails
I knew obviously okay well that was my
Adobe password and we know that Adobe
got hacked and they stole all the
passwords and email addresses and
everything so I went into last house and
I exported my entire list of passwords
to a CSV file right and I just did a
ctrl F and I just searched for that
password and I saw oh yeah that was just
my Adobe account so I didn't really care
about using that password on multiple
sites and there were a couple of forums
where I used it in a couple of other
sites where I used it that I don't
frequent they they just are sites that I
had signed up for because I had to to be
able to post a response to a thread or
something and then so I just went in and
changed all those passwords so remember
how you have this like really amazing
friend who reinstalled your OS for you
how you gonna do that when she's you
know way up to the HD yes that's what we
my plan is in fact to come visit with
you no I mean not like incredible
frequency but I'm hopeful hoping for
quarterly if not like twice here once
the pandemic size down a bit all the way
I'll have to jump in the airplane come
snatch you away that's what I have to do
looks like he he either just came in
from outside or he's trying to look
really just scroll to the right Sasha
you might stall a couple of times to see
everybody
I'm using my phone yeah and it's
probably set up in a way yeah my light
my lighting people are back were you
able to change them you then or no yes
good okay yes okay so I can scroll
through all the people see I don't know
if the phones have gallery view they do
but it's yeah it's only four at a time
so I see I'm gonna go back to the one at
a time so that I'm not let's do dark see
Bo was reminding me Bo and I had a
conversation last night because he
realized some problem with this single
board computer 1u server that I'm gonna
land a build and that's that I sent him
a picture of the board layout to say
get this like this is how it's gonna be
laid out it's gonna be amazing nine
single board computers and he says oh
that m2 there and the rock pro 64 both
12-volt boards well so that means that I
would either have to put in a second
power supply to power a 12 volt rail or
and then we run into a problem where I'd
have to have a second fuse panel so I
suggested that okay let's let's remove
the 12 volt boards I'm gonna get those
out of there and instead I'm gonna just
go with 5 volt you've got three drone
experience right from years ago yeah we
did the drone zone oh so I have way too
many oh I'm sorry I just wanted to ask
are you familiar with the ubiquitous
regulators that was they can they can
take that 12 volts and drop it to 5
volts without any problem at all if you
want to do something like that both
showed us a step-down converter that you
can selectively
turn a dial and it will set the voltage
so you just use a voltmeter and the
voltmeter will show so as soon as I get
down to about five and then then I've
done I'll plug my boards in good yeah
what what bo and I were talking about is
using to step down controllers to step
downs and 219 volt 135 watt power
supplies from laptops and then just
running them in a in a parallel circuit
so that if one of the power supplies
dies the second one is redundant okay
and you you're gonna feed them in
parallel or something so that's Josh
shut up exactly well both would always
be powered up and then if one dies the
other one is able to carry the load but
can one carry the load of oldest ESP
sheesh
yeah 135 watts
okay yeah all right good okay yep
they're like an HP power supply
oh hi sold I was all shopping with my
sister one battery just started up in
the bedroom
think electric could work on my lawn
it's big enough that it takes me
probably an hour an hour and a half to
do on a on a riding lawnmower Wow I
don't think I don't think electric we're
our houses stuck in the middle of the
city so we have like a plot that's
shared with the neighbor like that's
like this big fit in your back pocket
and of course I end up with one of those
neighbors yeah exactly and I end up with
one of those neighbors who will mow his
side of the lawn what's crazy about the
house I'm moving to is that I don't
actually even know the property like
they've grew up there so he knows I
think it's like two acres or something
but I've never just passed the place
seeing the hole I've never seen the
whole property I've never seen the
basement or the Attic and there was one
room that I've never been in on the main
floor like it's totally insane yeah I'm
moving to the house like almost sight
unseen okay because every time we would
go we would go to visit his dad right so
it's not like I did a tour of the house
we were just going and visiting so there
was no need for me to do the basement or
the attic or go for a walk through the
backyard or anything
would be a little odd and I would never
just go into his bedroom right like that
would be also very odd so so yeah now
that now that we're moving there I'm
like oh my goodness I can't even picture
the house in its totality where the lawn
who knows how long I'll be cutting the
grass no idea how many batteries it will
take s we're leaving on my birthday
which is Tuesday yes this is a this is a
big birthday it's a big wow that's not
the 40th though okay what is it
I'm the 30 I'll be 39 my 39th birthday I
thought you were younger maybe you're
one year younger than me
so was the Queen the Queen and I were
born different years but same day
Wednesday is our first show and you're
gonna be moving the day before so gents
Safran I party sash and I have already
discussed it because she's going to be
on the road Tuesday probably unpacking
Wednesday I am going to record her on
Sunday
Italy distant so okay that's right right
Sasha yes I will be on the show I'm
gonna try I don't know what how it'll
work I'm gonna try and connect along the
way with this chord just to let you guys
know where I am along the route but I
again I don't I don't know what you also
don't know what your internet situation
is like at the new place do you yeah
yeah I don't yeah exactly I don't know
any
I don't know if we will in fact get
through well I mean I'm sure we will but
the the provincial borders are the rules
are a bit stringent right now on what's
being essential or non-essential travel
and I do believe with the paperwork we
have and the fact I have a job that we
are essential and the fact that all of
our possessions will be in our
possession so it should be obvious we're
moving but I mean truth be told at any
point along the way because we have to
cross through Quebec and then New
Brunswick and then Nova Scotia before we
get to Newfoundland we could be held up
at any one of those borders for any
amount of time so I bought a portable
toilet just in case for the draw time
are we talking about Sasha do you know
yeah yeah okay so we're leaving first
thing in the morning on the 21st I'm
hoping to get all the way through
Ontario and Quebec into New Brunswick by
the end of the 21st sleep in Edmundston
the 21st and then drive on the 22nd to
Nova Scotia and then sleep on the 22nd
in Nova Scotia yet on the ferry on the
23rd we already have our tickets booked
for the ferries for the 23rd so let's
hope that that works that's gonna be
okay hopefully like I know the ferry
just takes the 8 hours so we'll be on
the ferry for the whole day like the
daylight hours of the 23rd and because
there's such a high moose population in
Newfoundland
we won't drive at night there so as soon
as we disembark from the ferry will
sleep right there
like right in order bask and then we'll
drive for eight hours to Bonavista then
we will be there so we're not expecting
her to be on the air on Wednesday so
you're so you're gonna be driving you'll
get there just before my birthday yes
thank you how many miles and a lot it's
not sure you'd have to google it it
looks so much smaller it looks so much
smaller on the Google Maps and yes when
I when I google from the one point to
the other it says like 3,000 kilometers
but I don't know whether or not part of
that is the oh I guess part of that is
the ferry which I'm not driving yeah
I'll stop my trip meter let's see let's
see if I remember that I'll set my trip
meter and I'll let you know what the
total count is if I remember when you
ran the truck they usually include on
the agreement the number of kilometers
on the truck so even if you forgot to
reset the odometer you'd probably be
able to figure out how far you traveled
based on that because you know they're
tracking it for sure I mean the truth of
the matter is we will have to return the
truck whilst under quarantine
so Dave's towing his truck or his car
behind the truck dropping his car off at
the drop point then we're unloading the
truck and then he's circling back
dropping off the truck and getting right
into his car so he has no contact with
people
Wow Sasha all I can say is safe driving
have a safe trip and and I hope that all
goes well for you so you won't have a
chance to miss me I promise you I will
be active and I will be a participant in
the show as soon as everything is set up
and settled I even have a studio place
hypothetically in mind I just have to
like make sure that it exists in the
actual house
fully and hopefully Lana Vista is not
like one DSL connection shared among all
the houses okay guys I I don't know how
to leave the meeting but I gotta go
because my just kick you out because
times up so you Sasha it's been nice to
see you all
yeah yeah before you go let's look what
I got to do after the meeting install
this that's gonna take you longer than
Sasha's Drive Oh a big opportunity to
see a lot of things
[Music]
