Canadian folklore and ghost stories as
retold by author Becca Ferguson narrated
by Robbie Ferguson taking place in 1978
this is the tunnel monster of cabbage
town Ontario
in the early 19th century days of
Toronto
there were many rivers streams and
creeks branching across the land like
veins and arteries endless trees towered
above the developing city rather than
skyscrapers and down in the riverbeds
of these yet rural wilds lived a race of
water spirits known in Algonquin
mythology as may make way see these
elusive humanoid creatures were elfish
small and hairy with voices said to be
like the high-pitched drone of a
dragonfly when city builders rerouted
these waterways into solid underground
tunnels that merged with the sewer
system it is thought that the main
equation were unknowingly buried with
them by the early 20th century
Torontonians had long forgotten the
existence of these vast tunnels that is
until one summer's day in 1978 in an
area of the city known as cabbage town a
man named Ernest stumbled upon a secret
entrance to the tunnels while searching
for a lost kitten certain he had heard
distressed mewling down in the alley
beside his Parliament Street apartment
that
before he decided to army crawl into the
culvert about ten feet flashlights and
the tunnel gradually widened it's black
Devils like an abyss something scattered
ahead and he steadied the flashlight
beam hoping to see his kitten but it was
no cat caught in the beam a pair of
slanted red eyes bulged at him above the
gaping large tooth both of a hairy grey
bipedal creature about three feet long
it's reached and ran off into a side
tunnel terrified earnest shimmy back out
of the tunnel and waited a full year
before admitting to the Toronto Sun
newspaper what he had seen however when
they went in search of the tunnels
entrance they found it collapsed in upon
itself and no one has ever admitted to
such a sighting again
this has been the tunnel monster of
cabbage town Ontario part of Becca
Ferguson's Canadian folklore and ghost
stories series catch the complete and
ever-growing series on Wattpad or
directly on the author's website becca
ferguson calm like comment and be sure
to subscribe so you don't miss the next
tale
