covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias the success of a video game
cloud streaming service is all based on
content where you can and can't get your
favorite games the industry is getting a
shakedown as Nvidia's GeForce game
streaming service has lost four game
big-name game publishers with xbox game
studios Warner Bros Codemasters and clay
Entertainment pulling their titles by
the end of the week this comes as
Microsoft prepares to launch his own
game streaming service Project X cloud
and hi ending streaming's company blade
launches a lower priced version of its
shadow streaming service with
competitors PlayStation now in Google
stadia also chasing streaming customers
and Apple pushing its walled garden game
system the market is entering a new era
of competition similar to the movie and
TV streaming market a few years ago the
loss of Xbox and Warner Bros is
significant yet buried in an
announcement that Nvidia had signed up
to be soft whose titles include
Assassin's Creed far cry and the Tom
Clancy series for g-force it painted the
changes as an opportunity to refine our
library and stress that 30 of the top 40
most played games on Steam already
stream on GeForce now gamers pay Nvidia
$5.00 a month
for now to run games they have already
bought at a far higher performance level
and speed than their devices can manage
and video runs its own copies of the
games on its high-end servers takes
input from people's controllers
processes it and then streams video back
to the user
while they may seem like overkill it
means ordinary gamers can compete with
those on high-end gaming machines which
cost thousands of dollars with even a
microsomia difference between winning
and losing it is something many are
prepared to pay for but as with TV and
movie streaming services content is
everything and so there is a tussle
going on between game developers and
operators of streaming services Google
launched its stadia service with plenty
of fanfare a year ago but has so far
disappointed gamers because of its
limited selection of games and
compatibility issues it does offer the
best resolution at 4k and charges $10 a
month though we as we learned last week
you can sign up for
crow account right now to receive it for
free for two months PlayStation now
requires you to have a Playstation and
works only with games that run on the
platform although they are pretty
extensive and also cost ten dollars a
month
shadow offers a higher end service that
cost twenty-five dollars a month and
from next month will offer a lower cost
but lower powered $12 a month option as
for Microsoft's upcoming project X cloud
service due to launch anytime soon it
won't require users to own an Xbox and
pricing has yet to be announced
[Music]
