here's what's coming up in the category
five dot TV newsroom thousands of Disney
Plus accounts are already up for sale on
hacking forums IOT doorbell ring had a
bug in its configuration app which sent
Wi-Fi set information unencrypted to
some doorbell devices exposing customers
home with networks github will preserve
open source code in an Arctic vault
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show this is the
category 5 TV newsroom covering a week's
top textures with a slight linux bias
[Music]
join this weave by Jeff Weston and also
Robbie Ferguson he's just off set I am
over here somewhere this week a new AI
is combining machine learning and
computer vision to detect drowning
people in real-time using object
recognition it's able to tell if a
person is swimming normally or if they
are at risk of drowning what's best is
that the drowning detection is
open-source and can run on a single
board computer such as a Raspberry Pi a
secretive clean energy company backed by
guilt Bill Gates has created a way to
use mirrors and artificial intelligence
to harness the heat of the Sun replacing
the need to use fossil fuels heat
applications and cut back on co2
emissions this invention creates
concentrated solar energy so hot that
they can manufacture steel glass and
cement with a carbon-free source that
has not been available before let's get
into the top stories we're following
this week thousands of Disney Plus
accounts are already up for sale on
hacking forums Disney's hotly
anticipated streaming service Disney
Plus finally launched this week despite
being open to the public for just a few
days hackers have already hijacked
thousands of accounts and put them up
for sale on the dark web the going rate
for a hacked account appears to be
somewhere between three and five dollars
that's three to four times more than the
asking price for a hack netflix account
logical enough given the excitement
around the Disney Plus launch so yeah
I'm not really all that surprised
it's be honest with you you know I
watched the big hype of Disney Plus and
the first thing I thought was I have no
desire to put any money into this into
Disney Plus into Disney Plus oh wow I
can see the draw like I actually want to
see all I want to see all of the things
on and I just don't want to pay for it I
mean you have all the classic Disney
stuff but you also have Star Wars and
Marvel and all that kind of stuff built
in which you know for somebody who's a
big movie
that's exactly what you're looking for
right and for somebody who has young
kids I could see the appeal to say hey
you know my kids can watch us and it's
great but at the same time I'm going
I already have Netflix yeah I already
have other streaming services I have no
desire to throw money at Disney for
something else that's really tough it is
like I'm that young kids Robby whyme
whyme the voice over here folks but the
truth is isn't it
tough I think for content creators and
distributors these days because like
Disney needs their platform and Netflix
needs their platform
Amazon Prime needs their platform but
I'm not a like Jeff you say I'm not
about to subscribe to every platform
right I just want the Orval and like the
morning show like how do I get these on
one platform because right now that's
what that's the challenge for US
consumers and I think that the the
creators the content creators have to
come up with the solution we're like am
I gonna subscribe to Hulu and Amazon
Prime I'm in a great situation where
Amazon Prime also gives me free shipping
so I do want to ask a question about the
security of the situation yeah because
the real story is that hackers have
hijacked all of the accounts okay well
yeah how it goes yeah but that's not
them hacking Disney Plus that's people
who have really bad security on their
computers and their home networks and
are probably using the same password
from the same email and I mean let's be
clear chances are the majority of Disney
Plus users and subscribers are more than
likely families that often have tons of
accounts for their kids and everything
and you're gonna recycle passwords like
I think that's what this story's about
is people not being careful with their
passwords and the software on their
computers and I think that's what it
couldn't Disney Plus not have one of
those passwords strength things that
other places have what good is that
Sasha if you already have this
same password on Twitter and Facebook
and your banking and your email account
so it doesn't it come down to we have to
have a password manager so that we can
generate a fresh password for every
single subscription that we have online
what I'm saying yeah yeah so I mean it
doesn't surprise me that you're gonna
get those passwords out there yeah what
probably people are doing is using their
same password for Disney Plus is there
for Netflix and like that's exactly
right so compromise one and you get
access to all of them right and on top
of that most people are going to be
playing this on their Smart TVs and
their other streaming devices and so the
likelihood of them logging in and
logging off and logging in and it's not
going to happen they're gonna log in on
their device they're gonna recognize it
they're gonna approve it and they're not
gonna pay attention to the account for
however long and so if you've got you
know hundred other people who have
purchased their login information for
three dollars I don't have no clue and
so oh dear you're paying the monthly
fees they're sitting there going I spent
three bucks I gave up my coffee at
Starbucks today and I'm watching Disney
Plus forever true that is and does that
really matter to me as a consumer who's
paying for that service it's like the
stolen cable exactly our childhood where
it's like do I really care I'm paying
for it but you know who has access to it
and and so we're talking about somebody
stealing our access they don't have
access to our personal confidential data
I hope but they have access to our
accounts yeah I I would just assume that
Disney Plus would do one of those
password strength things but but that is
useless if I know if you've got a really
strong password that you use for all
your sites I mean it used to be you can
put a password in and then it was oh
it's got to be six characters now it's
got a character by the way you need to
use capitals and small letters oh now
you need punctuation it's like
come on now you need a 32-bit signed
algorithmic yeah yeah like I'm surprised
though that for the fact that I mean you
go to like on a Disney cruise or
anything like that Disney is all about
security and family protection I'm a
little bit shocked that they don't have
two factor authentication authentication
for their service don't they do you know
that they don't I don't know so maybe
I'm just speaking gibberish but maybe
that's what we need to look for FA to FA
is the answer yeah all the time
exactly so all right we've got to take a
quick break the crypto a report and more
of this week's top tech stories are
coming up don't go anywhere
welcome back
look at the cryptocurrency report as it
shows on our website category five dot
TV now this week the Bitcoin currency is
down I mean five hundred seventy four
dollars down it's on its decline is that
gonna persist I don't know nobody does
that's the thing okay Facebook Libre
still not trading light coin I mean
everything is down like coin is down at
fifty five ninety nine so we're talking
a loss of five dollars and forty six
cents which for a coin that's less than
sixty dollars in value that's a pretty
big percentage loss one hundred seventy
seven dollars for the etherium coin down
eight dollars and 85 cents mineiro is
also down Scala's down turtle coin is
also down I mean everything is on the
decline right now but what effects that
and the thing that we try to reiterate
here at category five technology TV is
that there is no knowing how the
cryptocurrency market is going to flow
and so you just have to be ready for it
and by being ready for it we suggest
that you only invest what you can afford
to lose it's very possible that you
could lose everything that you invest
it's very possible as well that it could
increase in value we really don't know
because the cryptocurrency market is
always open it never closes
and it's extremely volatile I'm gonna
head back over to the newsroom Sasha
what do you got for us IOT doorbell ring
had a bug in its configuration app which
sent Wi-Fi setup information unencrypted
to some doorbell devices exposing
customers home networks researchers from
a BitDefender notified ring in June of a
flaw in ring video doorbell Pro cameras
software that made it possible for
wireless eavesdroppers to grab the Wi-Fi
credentials of customers during the
devices setup because those credentials
were sent over an unsecured Wi-Fi
connection to the device using
unencrypted HTTP an attacker could take
advantage of this bug by forcing a
victim to reconfigure the doorbell the
attacker could use a Wi-Fi the
authorization or deaaath attack
against the device to make it re-enter
configuration mode and could use a
malicious Wi-Fi device to make the ring
doorbell drop off its network the
doorbells owner would then have to
notice that the doorbell is disconnected
which may require the attacker or
someone else to ring the doorbell
before the targeted owner realizes the
doorbell is offline when the doorbell is
put back into configuration mode the app
will offer to reconnect the doorbell to
the Wi-Fi network and then resend the
credentials to the doorbell in an HTTP
message encoded in XML the attacker
would then be able to connect to the
victim's home Wi-Fi network if there are
no other security measures in place to
stop them such as device whitelisting or
partitioning of the Wi-Fi network all
affected devices should now be patched
according to ring and BitDefender but
this is another example of why owners of
Internet of Things devices should
consider using Wi-Fi routers capable of
segmenting networks or offering guests
Wi-Fi networks that restrict access by
connected devices to the Internet only
and D auth attacks can still be used to
knock these devices offline allowing a
burglar or porch pirates to cover their
tracks by disabling video recording
that's a whole lot of work you have to
go through to make it happen but once
you get good at it I'm sure you just do
it I guess I mean I'm glad that they
jumped on it quickly though right was
good yeah exactly so there's these
there's those doorbells right with that
just do like the 30 second video
recording when the doorbell rings but
then there's also like motion detecting
door like there's so many different
Internet of Things devices out there
that the story it doesn't even just
speak to the ring doorbell as much as
like the smart fridges IOT in general
exactly right so the the guest Wi-Fi or
the whitelisted routers yep so that's
how I have my network set it at home is
I have all of my devices white listed
once I connect them smart I log them in
and nothing else can connect so I mean
if somebody comes by the house and like
hey I want to connect sorry not gonna
happen here's the gas net yeah okay
because the gas net is it's segmented
off from my own Wi-Fi all of my devices
are protected they are white listed and
if something shows up on trying to get
in that's not on the white list I start
going on a fishing expedition to find
out what it is
right so Jeff could you similarily set
up a like a guest Wi-Fi connection for
your IOT devices so that things like
smart smart fridges and smart devices
are all connected to their own private
VLAN well my router only allows for your
home network and then your guest net so
I mean I could and I could password my
guests net and make it so that nobody
can join so I could put my I of T things
on the guest net yeah that way they're
all segmented off into that and then
have all my home computers and devices
on my regular Wi-Fi network so I could
split it off that way yeah this means
that anybody who's coming to the house
sorry that I use in the Wow okay sure
fair enough but having something more
sophisticated like a like say a mikrotik
router something like that where you can
set up multiple VLANs that makes a lot
of sense in this scenario so that your
your visitors your guests can use Wi-Fi
because the kids friends are gonna ask
to use the Wi-Fi when they want to play
roblox on their devices right right
that's how it works but but the fact is
I don't want them to have access to my
land servers right what if their laptop
has a ransomware deployment running that
is going to encrypt anything that it
finds on a network as soon as they
connect we don't have any control over
that but what we do have control over is
segment
the Wi-Fi in such a way that they only
have access to the Internet and not our
internal and servers and that's thinking
about ransomware but also thinking about
the fact that hey kids are smart these
days I don't want them having access to
my personal files either so are there
different levels of routers like you
said yours just has the whole shoot and
then the guest is there like Internet of
Things routers where you have like a ton
of different segments I think does it
come down to consumer versus commercial
but mikrotik is a very happy medium and
I use micro tech as an example because
we don't have to go to the four thousand
dollar Cisco we can just go with a five
hundred dollar mikrotik and get the same
features as that four thousand dollar
Cisco that's what's mind-blowing about
it you know I I haven't even spent that
much on my home router like I think our
router was about two hundred and fifty
bucks
yeah so I mean it was it was on the high
end of your you know typical consumer
gear but one of the other things that I
now that I'm thinking about the router I
could have four different segments to it
because I also have the two different
bands the 2.4 in the 5 gig utilize that
I can have a guest and my home network
so I could in theory I do have access to
four different bands now because we've
got a bungalow the five gig doesn't
quite reach the whole house because it
is a shorter range but the 2.4 does he's
not for that one to the kids well it's
funny I mean when we upgrade like when
my wife and I upgrade our phones we'll
give our kids the old phones but then
they've got the old phone that they no
longer use for Wi-Fi and whatnot but I
will pull those off the whitelist
because they're still in the home they
you know they've got an old game on it
whatever but what I don't want is some
you know issue with the software where
there's a vulnerability because they're
no longer updating it I don't want it
accessing our network so I'll pull those
right off
that's great forward thinking I really
I'm telling you I'm not just a pretty
face
he's going all right off to Sasha shall
we yes
github will preserve open source code in
an Arctic vault github has announced its
plans to launch the Arctic code vault
with the aim to preserve open source
software for future generations for at
least 1,000 years the code sharing site
is partnering with the long now
foundation the Internet Archive the
software heritage foundation Arctic
world archive Microsoft Research the
both lien library and Stanford libraries
to ensure the long-term preservation of
the world's open source software the
github announcement states quote there's
a long history of lost technologies from
which the world would have benefited as
well as abandoned technologies which we
found unexpected new uses end quote the
company plans to store and preserve open
source software like flutter and
tensorflow in an abandoned coal mine in
Norway 250 meters deep in the permafrost
of an Arctic mountain github stores its
data on specialized ultra durable Felmy
which is coated in iron oxide powder
this data can be read by a computer or a
human with a magnifying glass in case of
a global power outage remarkably this
film is said to last for 1,000 years
the Norwegian tech company that makes
the special film said that they might
even last for up to 2,000 years if
stored in a cool dry and low oxygen cave
among the first dotted deposits
open-source software codes can be stored
at the vault included the Linux and
Android operating systems and 6000 other
important open-source applications
github is preparing to capture a
snapshot of every active public
repository on February 2nd 2020 and
preserve that data in the Arctic code
vault the snapshot will include public
code repositories as well as significant
dormant repositories
as if that's not impressive enough
github is also working on Microsoft's
project silica to archive all active
public repositories for over 10,000
years by writing them into courts of
glass platters with lasers this is
awesome
but this is awesome it's a very
interesting story it reminds me of is it
called the Noah project there's that
vault where they they're storing all of
the seeds right yeah it's kind of like
that but what's interesting is they've
given a date so arbitrary right but they
gave February the second 2020 so it's OH
- OH - two zero two zero I didn't even
catch that that's amazing I mean I'm
sitting here going okay so you've
announced a date yes and if I'm quite
frankly a social jerk and wanna like
upload a repository of like viruses and
all this kind of stuff under open source
that's the day I'm gonna make sure that
I've got a repository out there of bad
stuff Oh Jeff the dark side well you'll
be stored in a cave for ten thousand
years yes but I mean this is the world
we live in this is how he thinks folks
Oh February 2nd so here I'd better make
some viruses so we're gonna be in like
2000 years we're gonna be down in this
cave I'm by we I don't mean me but we're
gonna be down in the cave the
open-source version of you says that's
right sascha 2.0 magnifying glass a
global shortage and I'm like oh good
good good oh no Jeff was here I'm the
bad guy I just you're putting it out
there I think you open up the door for
people going on I'm gonna put you know
that out there I mean then the cool
thing about it though is you also have
people going hold on my my repository is
gonna be categorized on that day I
better make sure it's good it looks good
ah make sure the Raney's are just right
that's right yeah anybody with a
misspelling mistake is gonna be like oh
they just archived that for a thousand
years I know right ten thousand years
Jeff I love this because it makes like
digital like tangible right yeah whereas
I was watching a documentary on the film
industry and how it's going digital and
they're doing away with film and now now
if the technology shifts and changes
there's not going to be a way to access
the archives of our films right so now I
want them to hear this story
and use this same iron oxide cool film
stuff and find another cave and we can
just save all of our goods you're you're
such a happy person yes no disagreement
there big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux'
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at patreon.com slash
newsroom from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson and I'm Jeff Lester
