here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom Walmart employees are
speaking up about the inaccuracy of
their anti-theft AI sony has delayed
hosting a showcase event for its next
games console a brand new release from
raspberry pi now has 8 gigabytes of RAM
on a PI for Microsoft themselves are
warning users to think twice before
installing the Windows 10 2004 update
and researchers in Australia claim they
have recorded the fastest ever to
Internet data speed stick around the
full details and this week's crypto
corner are coming up this is the
category 5 dot TV newsroom covering the
week stop texting with a slight linux
bias
from the newsroom I'm Becca Ferguson
Walmart users uses AI technology to
detect shoplifters at self checkout and
a group of store associates are
concerned that it's putting their health
at risk
a group of Walmart employees say they
were past their breaking point with ever
seen a small artificial intelligence
firm based in Ireland whose technology
Walmart began using in 2017 walmart uses
ever seen in thousands of stores to
prevent shoplifting at registers and
self checkout kiosks but the workers
claimed it misidentified innocuous
behavior as theft and often failed to
stop actual instances of stealing the
group of employees has chosen to stay
anonymous since they are not authorised
to speak to the press they told the
press that they are dismayed that their
employer one of the largest retailers in
the world is relying on AI they believed
to be flawed one worker said that the
technology was sometimes even referred
to internally as never seen because of
its frequent mistakes the worker said
they had been upset about Walmart's use
have ever seen for years and claimed
colleagues had raised concerns about the
technology to managers but were rebuked
they decided to speak to the press they
said after a June 2019 Business Insider
article reported Walmart's partnership
with ever seen publicly for the first
time the story described how ever seen
uses AI to analyze footage from
surveillance cameras installed in the
ceiling and can detect issues in
real-time such as when a customer places
an item in their bag without scanning it
when the system spots something it
automatically alerts store associates
the concerned associates produced a
video to prove their concerns were valid
it begins with a person using self
checkout to buy to jumble packages
packages of rhesus white peanut butter
cups because the packages are stacked on
top of each other only one is scanned
but both are successfully placed in the
bagging area without issue the same
person then grabs two gallons of milk by
their handles and moves them across the
scanner with one hand only one is rung
up but both are put in the bagging area
they then put their own cell phone on
top of the machine and an alert
pops up saying they need to wait for
assistance of false-positive the
filmmaker repeats the same process at
two more stores where they failed to
scan a heart-shaped Valentine's Day
chocolate box with a puppy on the front
and a Philips Sonicare electric
toothbrush the video concludes that ever
seen failed to stop more than 100
dollars of would-be theft the employees
believe that the tech frequently
misinterprets innocent behavior is
potential shoplifting which frustrates
customers and store associates and leads
to longer lines one worker described it
as a noisy tech a fake AI that just
pretends to safeguard the corona virus
pandemic has given their concerns more
urgency one associate said they worried
false positives could be causing Walmart
workers to break social distancing
guidelines unnecessarily when ever seen
Flags an issue a store associate si
needs to intervene and determine whether
shoplifting or another problem is taking
place a corporate Walmart manager even
expressed strong concern that workers
were being put at risk by additional
contact necessitated by false positives
and asked whether they'd ever seen
systems should be turned off to protect
customers and workers this of course
comes at a time when self checkout may
become even more important for stores as
customers look for low-risk ways to shop
Sony has delayed hosting a showcase
event for his next games console Sony
did not directly mention the civil
unrest in the US but alluded to it
saying we do not feel that right now is
a time for celebration adding it wanted
more important voices to be heard the
firm had been set to unveil some of the
games and development for its
forthcoming PlayStation 5 on Thursday
hours later Activision delayed the
release of new call of duty content the
firm said now is not the time to launch
new seasons for modern warfare
warzone or Call of Duty mobile it had
been expected that both free-to-play
products would launch this week
presenting the firm a fresh opportunity
to sell character outfits and other
in-game items other technology firms
have also canceled planned launch events
games publisher
Electronic Arts postponed its reveal
event for its latest sports title Madden
NFL 21 and Google had earlier delayed an
online event for the next version of
Android Sony's move avoids the risks
inherent in trying to promote games
likely to involve violent combat at a
time when standoffs and clashes are
occurring across the u.s. other game
companies that are planning launches
over the coming days may now come under
pressure to reconsider their plans as
well single board computer fans
especially those who love the Raspberry
Pi are a static at the surprise release
of the new Raspberry Pi 4 with a
whopping 8 gigabytes ram yes 8 gigabytes
that's double the max memory they had
until now been available the Raspberry
Pi for launch just under a year ago and
is a very powerful little SBC but two
things about it were really lacking no
emmc storage capabilities in a maximum
of 4 gigabytes ram tho 4 gigabytes is
still quite impressive for a little SBC
well emmc is still not available on the
Raspberry Pi it boasts double the
previous maximum amount of memory that
said gone are the days of the Raspberry
Pi being the $25 SBC the price is now
$75 u.s. and up here in Canada it cost
us a hundred and ten to order one plus
shipping this makes it the most
expensive Raspberry Pi ever released
so why the surprise when the Raspberry
Pi 4 was released an 8 gigabytes ddr4
package wasn't available but micron
stepped things up earlier this year
providing the necessary component for
the upgrade unlike its predecessors
whose SOC can support no more than 4
gigabytes RAM the processor used in the
Raspberry Pi 4 can technically support
up to 16 gigabytes of memory in total so
while eight gigabytes is incredible in
this space it's not the absolute max
we've got to take a quick break the
crypto corner and more of this week's
top tech stories are coming right up
go anywhere
[Music]
welcome back to the crypto corner it's
been an exciting week the market cap is
around 270 billion US dollars but there
have been some interesting developments
when we're looking at the price in total
ten coins went up in this last week by
over 25 percent the leader being carried
on oh that went up almost 50 percent in
the last seven days reason is that they
announced now that they're getting
serious was the upgrade and so it looks
like we're going to have shall be soon
on the live network but others like
cells whose vests change zaleka
maker they all went up over 25% and only
one coin went down by only 15% so
overall it has been a very good week
from the investment point of view but
also if we look into what happened in
regards to the currencies let's take a
look at Bitcoin the last three weeks
after the halving the men pool is almost
empty again the transactions are
confirming in a very fast way there has
been no death spiral for the miners even
though we lost nearly 50 percent of the
hash rate and but not all bounced back
nicely and the next difficulty
adjustment will be just 10% down so
beacon really works like a clockwork at
the moment here in 2.0 as the next
subject has been a delay of course we
accustomed to that they are now saying
not July August they're saying now this
year but the interesting thing is with
phase zero which is the implementation
of proof of Stakes or the staking and
the minimum you need to have is 32
aetherium to be a become a validator of
the network and so somebody is analyzing
how many wallets are there was at least
32 ether in them and that has been
increasing over the last 12 months so
people are getting as a series and
becoming a validator next is Gemini and
Samsung are starting a partnership
whereby Gemini will be supporting the
efforts in the North American market so
Canada and USA if you're interested in
buying kryptos through three years
samsung telephone cell phone Gemini is
one of the serious and good exchanges so
it's a trustworthy exchange and that
partnership will mean a lot because it
will bring kryptos to the masses the
same time a an interesting wallet has
been developed one that doesn't need any
connectivity to the internet so unlike
the treasure and ledger this one and
gray if it doesn't it's currently being
developed but it has got already the
highest certifications it will be
launched this year and and it will be
completely disconnected from the
internet so there's another level of
security that you can have on on wallets
the last subject is there has been no
movement in regards to the investors so
Gregg scale investments which is a huge
investment company they are currently
buying the equivalent of one hundred
fifty percent of all new bitcoins said
that are being mined that's equivalent
of 3.2 billion u.s. dollars and that
they purchased recently in bitcoins
that's a significant investment I would
say on the other hand and then you've
got Paula Tudor one of the hedge fund
gurus in the US or even globally that is
committing to Bitcoin - on the other
hand you've got Goldman Sachs shooting
against Bitcoin
although the arguments that they're
bringing are not really valid it's like
somebody just being wanting to be
negative and bringing arguments in that
regard so I'm I'm I'm positive
if I look into the market anyway that's
from me today I wish you a fantastic
week looking forward to see you all next
week again and back to the studio thank
you very much for watching bye thank you
Robert always so insightful now just a
reminder for those of you who are
viewing that we're not providing
financial advice here on the show but
rather we're sharing what's happening in
the cryptocurrency market and leaving it
up to you always remember if you're
going to trade cryptocurrency markets
are ever-changing and they're always
volatile so you should only spend what
you can afford to lose now back to Becca
in the newsroom Thank You Robbie
Microsoft has finally released Windows
10 version 2004 also known as the
Windows 10 May 2020 update and promptly
warmed users not to install it the
update adds new security features and
fixes for previous cumulative updates to
Windows 10 but it also includes a
plethora of bugs and issues this time
around even Microsoft has warned users
not to install the update as it's
causing severe problems like the blue
screen of death or your system might
also fail to restart after installing
the update after installing the update
windows 10 devices may be unable to
connect to more than one Bluetooth
device another bug causes Mouse input to
stop functioning and another makes it so
variable refresh rate no longer works in
most games especially those using direct
x9 always-on devices such as your
network adapter might cause the computer
to restart randomly and other issues may
result in a blue screen of death
needless to say this is a bad situation
for Microsoft and could be catastrophic
for those who are stuck working from
home right now without access to an IT
department to fix a botched update
Microsoft has already started working on
the problems and we expect a new update
to the update by mid-june in order to
safeguard your PC you should avoid
installing this update however if you
already installed it you can honest to
uninstall it to enjoy a more stable
version of Windows 10 if you're sick of
a nonsense head on over to linux mint
comm for a free permanent fix
researchers in Australia claim they have
recorded the fastest ever internet data
speed a team from Menashe Swinburne and
RMIT University's logged a data speed of
forty four point two terabytes per
second at that speed you could download
more than 1,000 high-definition movies
or all thirteen seasons of category five
technology TV in under one second
and we'd upgrade our live stream to 16k
just because we can the average UK
broadband speed is currently around 64
megabits per second so this would be
roughly 700,000 times faster than what
most people in the UK experience day to
day Australia lies in the middle of
global rankings for internet speeds and
show connections are a regular source of
complaints from users researchers said
they achieved the new record speed by
using a device that replaces around 80
lasers found in some existing telecom
hardware with a single piece of
equipment known as a micro comb the
micro comb was planted into and tested
outside the laboratory using existing
infrastructure similar to what to that
used by Australia's national broadcast
network the result was the highest
amount of data ever produced by a single
optical chip which are used in modern
fiber-optic broadband systems around the
world the Australian team hoped their
findings offer a glimpse into how
internet connections could look in the
future while the data speed for
outstrips far outstrips any reasonable
consumer need in today's world bill
kokorin lecturer in electrical and
computer systems at Monash University
said it could ultimately help transform
a wide variety of industries as modern
life continues to put increasing
pressure on bandwidth infrastructure mr.
Krekorian says what our research
demonstrates is the ability for fibres
that we already have in the ground to be
the backbone of communications networks
now and in the future he goes on to say
it's not just Netflix we're talking
about here this data can be used for
self-driving cars and future
transportation
and it can help the medicine education
finance and e-commerce industries as
well as enable us to read with our
grandchildren from kilometers away
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at patreon.com slash
category 5 from the category 5 TV
newsroom i'm becca ferguson
