here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom Samsung blu-ray and DVD
players around the world are bricking
themselves automatically FIFA 21 will be
the most realistic yet space exploration
company SpaceX applied for a license to
offer satellite based service to rural
areas in Canada Google has quietly
launched an AI powered Pinterest rival
named Keene Apple is moving to ARM
processors and Microsoft's mixer
streaming platform is dead stick around
the full details and this week's crypto
corner are coming up this is the
category five dot TV newsroom covering
your week stop texting with a slight
Linux bias from the newsroom I am Becca
Ferguson Samsung users unplug your
Ethernet millions of Samsung blu-ray and
DVD players are being bricked all around
the world Entertainment has become one
of the biggest tools for keeping sane
during these trying times but while many
companies are aggressively pushing their
streaming services others still prefer
owning the media they buy in physical
form that mostly means DVDs and blu-ray
discs which of course require
appropriate devices to play them but
what if those devices all suddenly
stopped working for no apparent reason
that's the rather eerie and frustrating
situation that owners of Samsung blu-ray
players are now experiencing
experiencing around the world with no
answer or solution yet insight there
doesn't seem to be any common
denominator other than the fact that
it's happening across a number of
Samsung's Wi-Fi or Ethernet connected
blu-ray and DVD players it doesn't
appear to matter which model the most
common behavior reported is that the
players reboot themselves after a few
seconds causing an inescapable boot loop
others have reported hearing noises as
if the players were reading empty disc
slots given the mysterious and sudden
appearance of the bugs some people have
different
theories on what caused it some blame in
overnight firmware update but the range
of devices covered is so wide and random
that it seems less likely some believe
it may be an expired ssl security
certificate in the firmware which could
explain why no amount of resetting the
device to factory settings seems to work
unfortunately samsung remains
unresponsive despite the growing number
of complaints possibly due to how it
happened during the weekend given global
conditions it's understandable how
owners are not so amused especially if
it will require them to turn in the
device for manual servicing fifa game
developer EA Sports promises that the
next-generation version of FIFA 21 will
feature new technology to make it the
most realistic yet the FIFA series
remains one of the most popular video
game franchises in the world next year's
entry will release for both existing
consoles as well as the new Xbox series
X and Playstation 5 but EA says the
newer consoles will take advantage of
more advanced technology despite regular
criticism that the annual game is often
very similar to the previous year's
entry it had sold over 260 million
copies as of 2018 EA says its newest
title will feature more lifelike player
movements which it says will be the most
authentic character behaviors ever seen
in sports video games the next
generation additions will feature
significantly reduced loading times and
the PS 5 version will take advantage of
haptic feedback on the consoles dual
sense controller new rendering and
lighting techniques will also help to
increase the overall realism of the game
fans in the stadium stands will also be
more interactive even participating in
celebrations FIFA 21 will be released
worldwide in October before the new
consoles launch the PS 5 and Xbox Series
X versions with their advanced features
will be available later but EA is off
paths to players who buy the game on the
previous generation early sadly Nintendo
switch gamers won't get to experience
any of the franchise's new models or
gameplay innovations the lower powered
portable console will instead get a
legacy edition release that will include
only new kits and teams and an updated
menu and overlay system EA has promised
to reveal more about the game in the
coming months Elon Musk's SpaceX has
applied to offer high-speed Internet to
Canadians living in remote areas using
satellite technology year SpaceX has
launched more than 500 satellites into
Earth orbit to build its StarLink mega
constellation which aims to make
satellite internet available from
practically anywhere on the planet
SpaceX applied with Canada's telecom
regulator the Canadian radio-television
and Telecommunications Commission CRTC
for what's known as a basic
international telecommunication services
orb it's license that's a requirement
for any company that wants to offer what
the CRTC calls telecommunications
traffic between Canada and any other
country if they are successful in
getting AB its license that means SpaceX
whose formal company name is Space
Exploration Technologies Corp could
theoretically try to offer more Wireless
telecom services down the line such as
voice and data plans but for now the
application focuses on high speed
internet beamed directly into rural
homes and businesses via the company's
existing network of so-called near-earth
satellites
Canada is far from the only place SpaceX
is trying to offer Internet service the
company is planning to offer high-speed
Internet services in the United States
later this year through a subsidiary
known as StarLink before rapidly
expanding to near global coverage of the
populated world by 2021 as they say on
the company website crtc data suggests
as many as 40% of Canadians who don't
live in major urban areas do not have
access to high-speed Internet
and what is available is often
prohibitively expensive the issue has
taken on increased importance during the
Cova 19 pandemic as millions of
Canadians find themselves working from
home with seemingly no end in sight the
application was filed in May and the
debt and the deadline for public comment
was last Friday more than 1,200
Canadians have weighed in on the
proposal a large number of them in
support of it
Elon Musk says the new service won't
require a special installer there's just
two instructions and they can be done in
either order point at sky plug-in
stirling hopes to make its services
available worldwide and you can receive
a notification once it's available in
your area by signing up at StarLink comm
google has launched an artificial
intelligence powered Pinterest killer at
least competitor called keen also Apple
is switching to ARM processors and
Microsoft is shutting down its mixer
streaming video service Beck has got
those stories coming right up and also
Robert Koenig our crypto correspondent
is here with the crypto corner don't go
anywhere
[Music]
welcome to the cryptic corner this week
we've got some interesting news for you
but as usual let's start looking into
the market how did the market perform in
the last seven days as we can see no big
changes here last week it was a draw on
Sept 274 billion today or currently it's
278 billion
Bitcoin an increase of 2.4% in last 7
days but if we sort this year by 7 days
we see suddenly compound increasing by
two hundred ninety two percent the over
twenty coins that had an increase of
over fifteen percent and on the downside
only two coins lost more than fifteen
percent so what happened here why is
there suddenly such a big change and if
we look into the defy market cap because
compound is part of the defy market we
see that most of those changes are
coming from compound so last week I
showed you this this chart and it was a
2.3 billion now it's 6.7 billion as you
can see most of that is coming from
compound now let's dive a little bit
deeper into this you can check what
happened and if we take a look at the
compound plot platform so compound dot
financed we see it's basically like a
bank so you can supply money to the
environment or you can borrow money and
in the case of let's say Bay 80 basic
attention token you will receive 27
percent and if you borrow money you have
to pay 34 percent so far everything is
fine now last week compound was listed
on coin base and that caused a huge
increase in price and because of that
this environment went absolutely crazy
and the reason is that every time you
take out a loan or receive money you
will be compensated with comps which is
the native token of this platform so you
receive money in other words if you take
out a loan and to check that there's
another website called the predictions
dot exchange and if I say I want to have
1000 here so enter 1000
basic attention token and I do calculate
then I see that I will receive on top of
those thousand dollars I will received
seventeen percent interest so I don't
have to pay interest I will receive
seventeen percent interest
now some people are clever and they take
that money and put it back into the
system and that's called yield farming
and with yield farming you can achieve
interests of over 100 percent now I have
to clearly say at this stage so it's a
huge disclaimer what you're hearing here
is not financial advice this is a very
young industry it's guided by software
and there are plenty of bucks in
software and also it can be hacked so
it's a very risky environment and if you
don't understand the details of what is
happening here please do not invest any
money even small amounts can be
dangerous because the fees can be as
high as fifteen dollars for one
transaction so just to give you an
example of why one has to be careful
here's somebody that put money into the
system and took out so he was doing
yield farming and then suddenly realized
that he had much less money available
and the reason is that he was liquidated
because of the interest that he didn't
consider and this is a hard environment
it's got my software and if you don't
have enough collateral in the system you
will be liquidated there's nobody that
will call you and say hey you need to
put money in this year so you know
you're not liquid you're not being
liquidated and that's why you have to be
really please be careful I'm showing
this to you because defy as such is a
market that is coming as you can see
it's completely different to what you
are accustomed to as a bank customer but
it's the future
yeah it's decentralized which means
there is no entity behind this year it's
completely autonomous from any federal
institution or financial institution and
its global so everybody in the world can
participate here in other words you can
be your own bank by
getting money into it and taking money
out but as mentioned you need to
understand what this is about and so as
long as you don't understand things like
what is our way what do they do what w
BTC wrapped BTC ran BTC a dy/dx wrapped
eath all those things if you don't
understand what is happening here please
don't put money any money into that
there is no there is no customer service
that you can call in case something goes
wrong but as mentioned this is the
future this is where finance will go to
because it cuts out the middleman it
cuts out the bank and you can do
business directly and it's secured
because it's secured to the theorem
blockchain so more - more is to come in
this in industry more is going to be
invented and yeah anyway that that's it
from me and this week I hope you enjoyed
this short excursion to the defy market
the news on what's happening there and
thank you very much for watching and I
hope to see you next week again so thank
you bye bye
well thanks Robert always appreciate
your insight just a reminder for those
of you watching at home we are not
providing basically financial investment
advice what we're doing is we're giving
you the information about the
cryptocurrency market and leaving it up
to you to make the decisions and now
back to Becca Thank You Robbie Google's
area 120 team an internal incubator that
creates experimental apps and services
has launched keen a would-be Pinterest
rival that draws on the search giant's
machine learning expertise to create
topics available on the web at stake in
calm and on Android co-founder CJ Adams
says keen aims to be an alternative to
mindlessly browsing online feeds Adam
writes in a blog post on keen you say
what you want to spend more time on and
then create content from the web and
people you trust to help make that
happen
you make a keen which can be about any
topic whether it's baking delicious
bread at home getting into birding or
searching typography keen lets you
curate the content you love share your
collection with others and find new
content based on what you have saved
Pinterest has already captured the Hobby
focused side of this market with its pin
board style visual design two
characteristics that Keane is trying to
imitate but keen has Google's X
expertise in machine learning which Adam
says will surface helpful content
related to your interests Google has
never been able to break into the social
space a venue of online activity that
generates scads of lucrative data for
targeting ads a Pinterest style social
network would really allow it to hone in
on users interests and gather this
information and it does seem that data
collected by keen is being collated with
everything else Google knows about users
you log into keen using your Google
Account and clicking on the sites
privacy link just points you to the
Google wide privacy policy it's
interesting to see Google push its
machine learning systems into more
varied applications especially those
that seem like they're trying to foster
users interest in rewarding hobbies
rather than algorithms that drive people
to greater engagement without caring
what it is they're actually engaging
with will you give kin a try are your
interest such that you don't mind Google
knowing what you're into comment below
if you're watching online or hop on to
our website to post your thoughts on
episode 648 just seven weeks ago we
talked about how Apple plans to drop
Intel for its own processors for future
Mac's but it came as a surprise Monday
that these processors will be ARM based
it's a big move and perhaps the biggest
addition in that transition to arm power
chip Springs is the ability for iOS and
iPad apps to run natively on Mac OS in
the future Apple says most apps will
just work meaning you'll be able to run
native Mac OS apps alongside native iOS
apps side-by-side Apple is promising new
levels of performance and far less power
consumption when it with its move to
in-house processors Apple is designing
its own range of SOC for Mac's with
unique features to Mac but a common
architecture across product lines
Microsoft is working on office updates
for the new mac silicon and word in
Excel are already running natively on
the new Mac processors with PowerPoint
even using Apple's metal tech for
rendering Apple has always been also
been working with Adobe to get their
photo editing editing apps up and
running on the new chips Mac OS Big Sur
will also include a new version of
Rosetta Apple used Rosetta previously
for the PowerPC shift intel-based macs
and rosetta 2 will automatically
translate exist existing apps at install
time this means that even if developers
haven't fully updated their apps they
should still work without modification
Apple is also using virtualization for
running versions of Linux on these new
Macs apple's transition to arm follows a
similar move by Microsoft to experiment
with Windows on arm nearly a decade ago
Microsoft started this work ahead of the
Windows 8 release in 2012 and even
released the windows RT operating system
that was designed for ARM based hardware
Microsoft has since transitioned Windows
10 to arm as well
Apple will release the first Mac with
apple silicon at the end of this year
and it expects the transition to take
two years new Intel powered Macs are
still in the pipeline so Apple isn't
moving exclusively to ARM based max just
yet
Microsoft is shutting down mixer its
video game live streaming platform in a
move that will affect streamers from
Tyler ninja Belvin Zahn down in a
statement released on mixers official
blog on Monday the streaming service
announced that it will be shuttering its
operations side and will help mixer
streamers transition to Facebook gaming
starting on July 22nd mixer comm will
redirect to FB Gigi in a similar
statement on its blog Facebook gaming
noted that mixer streamers that choose
to move to Facebook gaming will be
matching partner agreements as closely
as possible most famously ninja had
signed an exclusivity deal with mixer in
August 20 1942 30 million dollars per
year
in an interview with the verge
Microsoft's head of gaming Phil Spencer
said that the move to shut down mixer
was a strategic one Spencer said it
wasn't as much about return on sell it
was about finding a partnership
partnership that was the best things for
the community and streamers we think
this is it and it gives us a great place
to launch more X cloud content and give
gamers the ability to play from there
while media is focused almost entirely
on the results of streamers the fact
remains mixer is closing down without so
much as notifying its staff trust and
safety staff urges uki said on Twitter
Monday guys we had no clue I found out
with the rest of you I am devastated I
have dedicated all I have to this
platform and this hurts immensely
according to Microsoft
mixers intellectual property and staff
will be transferred to the Microsoft
teams division on July 22nd but jesu key
make it sounds like that's not the case
at all she's tweeting a call for
employers to reach out to her if they're
looking to hire a strong willed
empowered female who focuses on
efficiency and high productivity with a
team mentality and she reached retweeted
I am Brandon who said there are a lot of
people out of jobs now due to mixer
closing during a pandemic what the H ll
launched in January 2016 as beam mixer
was renamed after its acquisition by
Microsoft in 2017 the platform's attempt
to compete with twitch resulted in the
signings of major twitch streamers such
as ninja and shroud for huge monetary
deals despite these moves mixer was
unable to significantly approach twitch
as larger audience numbers big thanks to
Roy W Nash in our community of viewers
for submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and if you appreciate
what we do become a patreon patron at a
tree on.com slash category 5 from the
category 5 TV newsroom I'm Becca
Ferguson
