welcome to category five technology TVs
to sash and I and a pine buck this week
last week I gave it a bit of a hard time
because my first impressions we're all
focused on the negative not necessarily
but I want to be real I want to be raw I
want to be honest yeah and there are
some caveats with something like a $99
laptop but there are some amazing things
that we need to focus on this week as
well so I've actually reached out to the
community Sasha and said hey anyone
who's using a pine book let's talk about
this what don't you like what do you
like and what are you using yours for so
today we're gonna be looking at that and
maybe just maybe a $99 laptop would fit
very very nicely in your backpack also
we're gonna be talking about how I was
not interviewing but I was the subject
of an interview this week and I'll tell
you how you can listen our live
recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer you can tune in every week on
roku kodi plex and other HLS video
players for local show times visit
category 5 TV category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
is here cat 5 TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV slash iai be you
weren't lying i feel like you're yelling
at me Oh
projection thing it's that's what it is
I've got these monitors in my ear so
that I can hear what's going on around
us so if you speak loudly it's it's
booming in my yeah hey how's everybody
doing I'm Robby Ferguson I am Sasha
Rickman it's nice to see you it's nice
to have you here
Before we jump into it this week I want
to remind you make sure you subscribe to
us on YouTube and also click that bell
to receive the notifications whenever we
are live or when we've posted a brand
new beautiful smashing video
our feed now we have two channels we've
got category five technology TV which
you can find just by searching for it or
if you go to linux tech show com
I shouldn't say or I should say ant and
because you definitely want to subscribe
to both of these channels and I'll tell
you why so go to linux tech show comm
that's gonna reroute you to our other
feed kind of our daughter channel so
linux tech show is edited down snippets
from category-five TV that's where the
little 5 10 20 minute clips happen okay
so the category 5 TV newsroom if you
want just that you can catch it there
however none of the live stuff happens
there our live stuff happens on category
5 technology TV so if you want any of
those notifications to happen when we
are live or when we post a full one hour
episode that's through category 5
technology TV so make sure you do that
as well this week we're getting into
well we're basically circling back to
last week's episode and this week is by
contrast a week in the life of a pine
book user lovely mmm-hmm last week's
asha we unboxed this beautiful beast yes
the pine book have you felt this how
lightweight and sleek that is but last
week of course we were purposefully I
would say kind of raw and hard on it yes
and for those who don't understand the
method behind the madness it's important
for me to make very clear out the gate
that this pine book is not the laptop
that you're gonna send your kids to
school with ok so there is a method to
the madness absolutely and we want to be
real we want to be raw and we want to be
honest with you these are very important
things but the pine book does have a
very very valid space when it comes to
computer users yes we're going to
approach that tonight first of all
though I want to look back at some of
the not so nice things about the pine
okay last week so the okay just backing
up a little bit this what I hold in my
hands it looks like a very sleek laptop
it's got the form factor of maybe a
little bit thicker than a MacBook Air
it's made of plastic it's it feels good
but cheap look it feels like it's solid
it the hinge mechanism does not feel you
feel that yeah tell me if I'm wrong it
feels solid yeah it feels
well-constructed
yeah but it's only 99 bucks yeah so let
let me just reiterate that this is only
$99 for a pine buck but when when I
opened it up last week for the very
first time one of the things that I've
you know first out the gate noticed was
that I really don't like the keyboard
that's just you know that's my real raw
honest reaction to this because I type
really fast and I type without looking
at the keys and so it's problematic for
me when I have to hold a function key
and push other keys in order to do
things that I normally would do on an
ansi keyboard hmm okay that makes sense
to me
so with that rawness and reality it
could come across as being like I don't
like it I love this thing right I think
this thing is awesome
but there are caveats and there are
there's a space for it there's a group
of people who this is an amazing thing
to be carrying around in your kit yes
but there's an there's the average
computer user the normal computer user
if you will the the person who's looking
for a laptop computer to take to school
this is not for them right so that's
what I set out to do that's what I set
out to honestly demonstrate and convey
yes you're absolutely right so let's
look at what now what I did is I have
approached the community I've talked to
some pine sick some pine book users this
week and wanted to get their impressions
for what it's like to have a pine book
and what is the good about the pine book
right okay but first let's look at the
bad let's look at the bad and when I
talked to dawn
dawn says the keyboard alone so this is
what we looked at last week on category
five technology TV the keyboard alone
prevents the pine book from being
functional I have no problems with
single board computers like the
Raspberry Pi but they are out of their
element when someone tries to put them
into a laptop form-factor now Don
believes and I quote there are no
legitimate uses for the pine book
compared to similarly priced
alternatives Wow
that's dawn statement not mine he calls
using an external keyboard to remedy the
issues with the keyboard putting
lipstick on a pig
well Don Don is not a fan of the pine
book okay that's great that's cool
we're being open and honest here okay
now I personally since the show last
week have had trouble installing Chrome
I really want to get Chrome on here any
guesses why we've talked about Chrome on
the show there are some really cool
features that you can get with Chrome
like Google Docs offline yes imagine
this as a writers notebook with Google
Docs offline right well if you don't
have Chrome it only has Firefox
and if you can't get Chrome installed
guess what you can't have Google Docs
offline so why can't you get it is it it
won't install huh it's not available as
an it's not available in the package
managers is not it's not easy to compile
I'm still working on it I'm only a
weekend mind you maybe I'll figure it
out and I know some people have gotten
chromium working on it but that is the
open source a browser that Chrome is
based on so whether or not I will be
able to do the same things on chromium
as I can on Chrome Google's browser I
don't know the answer to that yet right
I'm working on getting you that answer
but beyond Google Docs offline which is
really crucial for a laptop like this
because I want to be able to take this
anywhere and do my typing and do my
writing and things like that right
beyond that I really want to be able to
access chrome remote desktop because
this doesn't have a lot of power but
with its 1080p screen if I could bring
up my desktop computer on the screen and
be controlling it from this from a
coffeehouse right I would think to
myself that that would be the common
sensical purpose for this it would be
perfect yes like a like a thin client of
sorts but using chrome remote desktop
right they would be fantastic so those
are the things that I've personally
encountered now my wife Becca who's an
author says and I'm quoting I to find
the keyboard irritating as I am a fast
typer having to pause and use the
function keys is an interruption and
brank breaks my train of thought and for
quotations so think about this
quotations right I actually have to
press the function key and the shift key
and the key that has the quote whew so
that's doubly annoying she says I write
fiction so dialogue requires a quotation
mark and that's quite a frequent
happenstance when you're writing fiction
she goes on to explain while the font
size is adjustable in Google Docs
obviously if I use anything else so
Google Facebook discord the font size is
minuscule and it's very uncomfortable to
read and I in fact looked at it and I
said well press ctrl+ didn't work so I
actually went into view and and in
Firefox zoom + + + + and it didn't do
anything oh nothing at all there's no
functionality within the browser to be
able to bring and like increase the font
size so she's absolutely right there so
another another strange negative for the
pine book yak again remember my
motivation here I want to if you are not
comfortable with these caveats I don't
want you to rush out and buy one because
you're just gonna give it a bad review
and you're just gonna have a negative
experience I want you to have a great
experience right and if you can work
around those you know small or not small
issues yeah and you get it and you love
it that's perfect
so so by contrast of these negative
Sasha yes I have talked with the
community and gathered some ideas as to
what the pine book is in fact excellent
for right plus I've got my own
impression from the pine book as well
remember this is a $99 single board
computer powered laptop from pine
sixty-four you can get one a cat5 dot TV
slash pine book but right now you're
thinking well why would I want to do
that everything that I've heard so far
is negative I have talked to the
community I've talked to other users and
when we come back we're gonna be
learning some of the things that they
say that are nice yeah about the pine
book obviously one of them is the form
factor yes that's really sy love it
stick around we've got some good news
for you coming right up
[Music]
before the break we were looking at some
of the negative caveat of the pine book
the $99 laptop from pine 64 right but
there are some very good things to be
said about this as well yes a marriage
right did say the battery lasts forever
oh yeah and look at that and feel that
it's so lightweight and yet the battery
I don't think has ever died yet and
we've had it for a week
exactly Martin was saying ctrl shift +
and zooming in chromium zooming in
chromium works on our arm Ian and on
pine buck Wow I'm stuttering do you
follow hi ok so if I installed armed
bein on this yeah so now we've got the
stock distro on this right now so every
experience that we've had so far is
based on what pine $0.64
out of the box everything is vanilla
right so first of all what I heard there
is armed bein that means I have to
install a different distro interestingly
enough ok so here's a plus that I didn't
intend to mention there are 1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 10 screws they are Phillips
screws nothing proprietary on the bottom
don't worry on a future show I'm going
to be taking this apart and showing you
the innards however on the circuit board
is a traditional emmc chip that is your
hard drive so you can actually take that
emmc off and install a new one whether
it be a bigger one or just a different
one so if I want to if I don't want to
lose everything that's on here right now
I can pull off that emmc card plug in a
new one with a different distro like arm
bein and and then be up and going with
arm bein now that's that the other the
second thing that I heard there was
chromium so does arm bein
have chromium working out of the box
that would be interesting because that's
I really need those chrome features on
this device that's what I want okay cuz
storm chaser 3000 was asking why Google
Docs and instead of LibreOffice because
of the cloud capability oh this is not a
daily driver computer but I want to be
able to take this to the coffee shop I
want to be able to take this to the
cottage it's so lightweight it's so
portable and it's so destructible it's
so cheap so if it does get destroyed or
stolen or whatever it's not it's 99
bucks you know so maybe the next guy
will be happy with it but it's not meant
to be my computer my main computer this
is just meant to be something that has
access to my my document something so
Google Drive gives me access to Google
Docs and we talked about how that can be
set to offline mode so that this can now
be used without any Wi-Fi and I can
still edit my documents and then next
time I'm on Wi-Fi it will sync and
that's a brilliant thing so as a writer
as a programmer
being able to do that and not have
internet connectivity to be able to sit
in the middle of a forest and work on
this while listen to the birds would be
a wonderful thing
well that totally erases my thought and
my thought was that something like could
you not install some sort of voice to
text and they should read the keyboard
because then you wouldn't hear the birds
voice I don't like to hear my own voice
when I'm doing dictation it does have
dual microphones yeah which we have not
tested yet but you see there are dual
microphones I can get in here for you
just so that you can kind of get a
better look so above the keyboard here
I've got one and two microphones plus
I've got a little 0.3 megapixel webcam
so nothing to write home about but it
does have that capability so yes I could
use dictation quote this is great end
quote and then it would type it yeah so
to answer the question you know why not
LibreOffice because I want to have so
when I edit something in Google Docs and
then I go to my desktop it's already
there I didn't have to sync it I didn't
have to put it on a USB flash drive or a
network it's it's
literally their make it that easy it
just really makes it easy so let's look
at some of the the comments that have
come in that are on the positive side
right and I have some too stripped says
that they actually use the pine book for
SSH this is a great little SSH terminal
to be able to connect to other systems
through the Linux terminal strid also
says that they use it for scripting and
a little bit of light browsing on the
internet they use it for email just you
know basic stuff like that kind of like
what you might use a netbook for but
remember this is a larger screen it has
1080p resolution and it's it's got some
pretty nice specs like it's got 2.4
gigahertz Wi-Fi it's got Bluetooth 4 and
it's and with Bluetooth 4 I mean you can
connect your headphones and be listening
to music while you type if you want to
put some mp3s on here or something like
that that would work katha says it's a
decent machine for portable SS aging so
there's a reiteration on the ssh idea
which i think is great cat s says that
that's one of the things that they use
it for and also reiterates my point that
it would make a great thin client
something to be able to connect to other
systems with the thought that ok so far
with the stock OS I don't have access to
Chrome so I don't have chrome remote
desktop now I could use VNC I could use
connect wise although with the free
version of Connect wise I don't get
audio I could install our desktop
presumably and be able to use that if I
wanted to but then we open up security
concerns on our network unless we have
open V and Open VPN installed on our
network those kinds of things so there
are all kinds of things so I want to
have access to the the chrome remote
desktop it just makes things convenient
for me but to that point yeah this would
make a really good didn't client to be
able to access more powerful machines
yet using it on something
it's just a $99 laptop Qatar goes on to
say I use my Chromebook Chromebook pine
buck for nano and markdown coding so
again somebody working in the terminal
using nano a text editor to do markdown
which is like a text it's not a markup
language I guess it's a markdown
language not even a language that's
marked down this is literally the
keyboard wouldn't be a problem in that
case then I wonder if right yes it does
seem yeah and so and I mentioned how my
wife mentioned that having to use those
control sequence keys and everything can
be a little bit of a showstopper and so
for her but she's still using it and
still really enjoying it because I think
the good outweighs the bad I wonder if
there is a little bit of a learning
curve and then all of them it just
becomes second nature and then you I
don't think function shift apostrophe or
whatever - okay function shift - is how
you do a quote but you know how I love I
don't think that would come second
nature but I love I think every time you
do that you will curse the name of pine
perhaps like a keyboard shortcut like
you just automatically no never never
sash that you're completely wrong I
don't like I don't like to disagree they
put that keyboard I don't think you ever
well I can be contrite come on okay
ketta says they like to set the screen
resolution to a low backlight they under
clock the CPU and optimize the power
settings to really maximize the battery
life and the usability of this as a
coding notebook the already super
stellar battery life oh yeah as I say
like so we do charge it like whenever
but it has never died and it's never
threatened to die and Becca's used it
for writing and she's using Google Docs
in order to do her writing because I've
been trying to encourage her to do that
so that when she then goes to her
desktop computer or her full-size laptop
it's already there and it works really
really well and she's starting to enjoy
that
okay marsh man from our community says
I'm not a typist so the funky keyboard
layout is not really a big issue for me
I love the pine book because of how
lightweight it is did I mention it's
lightweight it's so lightweight
he says it's perfect for travel he can
carry he already carries enough stuff in
his backpack doesn't want to be adding
any more weight this thing is
practically a feather yeah and because
of the battery life you don't even need
to bring the charger even though it's
just a little wall wart but it doesn't
add a whole lot of weight he says I use
it mostly for learning code I don't tend
to use it for things like YouTube or
internet surfing or heavy usage
he says he's got other tools for that so
for that purpose he has other things so
this so think about this this is
interesting because now the pine book
becomes something supplemental to what
you already have yes right so now it
starts to make a little bit more sense
maybe we're not looking at it as a
laptop now to replace my laptop no I'm
looking at it as something to supplement
my laptop as something that's ultra
portable yes and yet is not a Chromebook
it is a full Linux operating system
installed on the pine book so you don't
have those restrictions of being unable
to I mean other than yes we are
encountering inabilities to install
certain apps and things like that but we
don't ask it to be something that it's
not it is more of a full laptop as far
as the OS goes than a Chromebook right
but yet falls in under the price tag of
a Chromebook mm-hmm and has a very nice
form factor in a very nice feel to it my
wife and I mentioned she's an author so
she uses her computer to type a lot she
does have some positive things to say
about it she's been using it for the
past seven days and I thought well who
better to try it so I pawned it off on
my wife and said okay I want you to try
this for a week and I'm gonna come back
and next week and talk to the viewers
about how the pine book has performed
for you because she's always always
writing here's what she decided so here
are a couple of the positive notes so
she has first of all she loves the sleek
design I mean look at that I mean it I'm
not really a big cosmic
sky but that is it's sleek as anything
definitely I like I appreciate that it
doesn't say pine 64 with a big
illuminated load I'd be proud to wear
that but every other brand out there is
doing this right yeah
it's sophisticated because it's
understated right yeah
like I don't care that you're using a
Toshiba nobody should care that I'm
using a think pad I should choose what
my branding my my own personal
possession is right so yeah I appreciate
that too she says it is extremely
lightweight which makes it super
comfortable to perch on her lap or her
knee and to carry from room to room with
the lid open that's an interesting
comment as well with the lid open so
walking around with a laptop could be
quite you know if I had this big one
wonder if you could you know it's not
back heavy or anything crazy like that
so yeah you could take it with you in
your one-handed typer there you go now
my immediate thoughts echo Becca's my
wife's it is extremely sleek and like
Marsh man I find that it's really
lightweight it's not imposing and it's
like form factor and it's weight it
doesn't take up a lot of space or add a
lot of weight to my kit but a couple of
other notes that I have is first of all
while I mentioned the battery life but
thinking of a writer or a coder I really
don't want to have to be charging my
laptop if I go to a coffee shop I want
to be able to sit with three or five or
ten coffees and not have to charge my
notebook and that one will do it here's
something that I never thought of before
until we started using this throughout
the week and so of course I didn't know
this when I first opened it it generates
very little heat and there are no moving
components think about that for a second
there is no need for a cooling fan
therefore it's not only is it really
cool it doesn't generate any Heat
but it is absolutely 100% undeniably
silence silent there is no sound that
comes from this device whatsoever
huh right and excellent I can take I can
say that's a nice thing because my fan
when it fires up yeah you can't really
hear mine too yeah so if you're a ninja
this is a perfect perfect notebook it's
lightweight and it's slightly there's
the new slogan pint 64 if you're
watching this there's your new slogan
pine book it's good for ninjas perfect
perfect for a ninja the pine book pro
which is planned for later this year and
we're really looking forward to that
I understand it's going to be available
at a marriage Royd so make sure you use
our coupons get onto our discord you'll
see that there are some coupons there
when they come available but the pine
book pro is going to do away with a lot
of these caveats so the negative things
that we said are going to be done away
with it's going to cost more but for
example the keyboard there is going to
be an option pine 64 is bringing us an
ansi option which is the traditional
layout for America and Canada where
we're not going to be uncomfortable with
the keyboard anymore what do they call
this keyboard I'm not allowed to swear
on a g-rated show I just wonder because
not that I would anyways but it's a
nightmare
we'll just say that much sash it must be
some sort of typical layout is this if
anyone knows if this is a layout for a
certain region right what else it has to
be said they didn't just create my wife
said why would they make it like this
and I said I don't know maybe
cost-cutting or you know try to bring
down the cost I picked you there was a
group of people at a table and they had
a presentation and there was alcohol
involved and they were going through a
bunch of options and then it was like a
silent vote people just checked off
which one they liked and this one won
and I want to know why Ameritrade
believes that it's an iso keyboard so
note to self stay away from iso keyboard
let's stick with ANSI so watch for that
okay so when you order your pine book
crow watch for the ANSI keyboard laid
out so all that said what is the pine
book it is a earth-shattering
groundbreaking innovative device it's
$99 it is in all essences a single board
computer built into the chassis of a
laptop so understand that in the context
let's put it into the context of
something that everybody knows and I
hate to do this because this is a pine
64 product so yes let's look at the a 64
but maybe you're not familiar with that
let's look at the Raspberry Pi and say
what if they brought out a Raspberry Pi
that was a laptop okay so then you have
to think okay well the Raspberry Pi is
not very powerful same with the a 64
right the Raspberry Pi can only run some
distros and not others same with the a
64 the pine book exactly it it has
problems with certain things because it
doesn't have a lot of resources and it
doesn't have a lot of speed well same
thing with the pine down so it is in all
essences it's like a single board
computer in the form factor of a laptop
so we have to understand that as we're
looking at it as a purchase we have to
know that this is not a laptop like the
thousand-dollar Windows machine that
you're gonna buy at the big-box store
okay hmm the Intel or the AMD that's not
like that
these are arm based single board
computers in the form factor of a
beautiful stunning lightweight long
battery life laptop right and so for
that I love this thing I can get past
the caveats because when I'm using it I
know what it is I understand what it is
and I appreciate very much and I love
what it represents and the pine Book Pro
is going to be the next iteration that's
going to take this idea this concept
this innovation to the next level and
say okay now we're getting closer to
something that is maybe a little more
like your daily driver
that's what we're working toward that's
what pine 64 is it's very very fast
approaching so watch for the pine Book
Pro as well but this may be may work
for you the foods asking with the Delete
key is can I just show ya do you want to
hop on there and show where the delete'
do you find it yeah I did it's right
here it's where like above the tax base
would be how er delete and then there's
all like there's escape and then all the
function keys and then delete and then
power function shift - guess how I get
quote why are you doing that all the way
over there can't you just 3 is therefore
not a function over here oh that's too
bad
hold on no there's not oh it's wait it's
over here see it should be over here
don't make this a negative thing Sasha
well it should be over here yes and the
backspace should be over here and yeah I
know so we've talked about the keyboard
but we okay I still really like it I
really like it do something awesome okay
so so I know that there are those of us
who can't get past the keyboard and
there are those of us who recognize what
this is and love it so check out cat v
dot TV slash pine book if you'd like to
get one of those for yourself or even
just learn more about it and make sure
you give us a thumbs up if you
appreciated the I guess the the rawness
of this review I never went into this
wanting anything to be negative or I
want to be real though I want to be like
I don't want you to go out and buy it
and be shocked you're giving true
feedback for what it is and also treat
feedback for what it isn't that's
exactly right yeah yeah
all right well moving along Sasha you
ready to head over to the newsroom I
sure AM all right here are the stories
were covering this week in the category
5 TV newsroom research has suggested
that cyber thieves are creating an
invisible internet to stop police spying
on cybercrime deals being done on the
darknet millions of Internet connected
machines running the open source XM mail
server may be vulnerable to a newly
disclosed vulnerability that in some
cases allows
set on authenticated attackers to
execute commands with all-powerful root
privileges Microsoft has deleted a
massive database of 10 million images
which was being used to train facial
recognition systems and Google has
revealed more details about its new
video gaming platform stadia which was
first announced in March these stories
are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories of the slave Linux bias
I'm Sasha Rickman and here the top
stories are following this week research
has suggested that cyber thieves are
creating an invisible internet to stop
police spying on cybercrime deals being
done on the darknet the research
suggests that instead of trading on
marketplaces criminals have turned to
gated chat forums invitation-only
communities and encrypted apps they warn
that the change could make it hard for
law enforcement agencies to spot and
trace attacks they also found a large
increase in attacks aimed at big
companies the study embedded undercover
researchers into a wide variety of
forums and gated chat forums on the dark
net the dark net is the part of the
internet not accessible to search
engines such as Google and for which
people need a special browser visit the
most well-known dark net is accessed via
the tor browser dr. Mike McGuire a
criminologist from the University of
Surrey who led the research project said
that successful efforts by police to
infiltrate dark net market places as
well as raids that saw many of them
closed down had pushed criminal hackers
to adopt more secure ways of
communicating well criminal gangs were
still active on those publicly
accessible mark marketplaces dr. McGuire
said any conversations about targets and
tactics were instantly moved to secure
apps such as telegram or separate forums
and chat rooms dr. McGuire warns that
the changing nature of the dark net
underworld should prompt police to
change the way they tackle cybercrime
he says if one group disap
here door was broken up by police
another would just move in to fill the
gap that does make sense because they're
cyber criminals and they're very smart
it seems so sci-fi doesn't it yeah
there's this underworld of criminal
activity on the very Internet but
understanding the infrastructure of how
the internet works and I was thinking
about this the other day how interesting
it is that little sub like even VPN
style networks could occur within this
infrastructure mm-hmm and there's no
tracking it there's no accessing it
unless you have access to it the dark
NAT seems so like ominous and my family
down that way I don't know anything
about it cuz I'm scared of it I don't
want to stay on the light net I don't
want to be in the goods oh yeah yeah and
I had a customer who called up and said
how do I get access to the dark net and
I said don't Google that in the
particular industry that they work in
they their material could be used for
like bombs and things like that so so
just knowing that I said do not search
for that online get yourself into some
kind of trouble or on some kind of list
if you're not careful so just move along
forget about it I've never seen it
either but I know that like I've spoken
with Stephen Cobb from ESET and you know
he he has done research on the dark web
the dark Ryan and has logged in to get
familiar with it as a security
researcher and well he's he's noted
things like how the distribution of
illegal assets take place within the
dark web and how that information is so
readily available for a small price and
it's interesting how we think about
things like ransomware and so we're
thinking of it from the perspective of
the the internet that we know the world
wide web right which is our net okay so
the world wide web being a public
network that
you have access to on the internet now
the dark web being a non public network
that well at least it is it's publicly
accessible but only through certain
means but it's also on the internet but
it's not part of the World Wide Web so
it's not it's not interconnected well
it's all infrastructure yeah it's like
here's the infrastructure all that can
like the resources like think about
cables and everything well what's going
through those cables what's going
through those wires as far as data goes
well there's the world wide web going
through them that's what everybody has
on their computers right and that's what
your internet service provider is giving
you but then there's this dark web which
is just another thing going along the
wires it's the same wires but just being
broadcast in a different way
it's scary and my mind kind of breaks
thinking about it I just don't so what I
don't know why anybody other than
criminals would want to go there like
what so then it's just criminals their
web I don't know I haven't been there
but I know that there are certain like
you don't have to be a criminal to want
privacy that's true you don't have to be
a criminal to want to be able to
communicate in a private fashion sure
although it's very helpful for criminals
that's all so let's not it's like
Bitcoin people had for a time had
started thinking of Bitcoin as like a
negative thing like a hackers currency
well no it's just that they've found
that it's really useful for that because
it can't be traced right it's very
difficult to trace so don't say that it
is a hacker thing no it's not a negative
thing it's not the ransomware hackers
that are controlling Bitcoin it's just
that's the currency that they use
because it can't be traced
yeah so thinking with ransomware and
thinking about our World Wide Web we're
thinking of it in that context but now
think of it in a context of the dark web
so now if a hacker has gained access to
a network and reveals that information
through and reveals that information
through the dark web and and makes it
accessible to the dark web now this
network that normally would be a private
network like a lamb right is accessible
for a price by subscribers who want to
access that network so they can use it
for crypto mining they can use it for
stealing data depends on what they find
right or they can just hey they can take
the lazy way out and crypt encrypt all
the files and hold them ransom yeah I
call it the lazy way out because it's
like okay well we didn't we're not gonna
bother yeah you know infiltrating it
we'll just encrypt everything and let
them pay just keep it simple I have one
more question what stops just everybody
from going on to the dark net or dark
web and just like lighting it up you
know like if everybody went to it it
would no longer be private right that
make sense
no so maybe it's like that's like like
let's make that in the context of
cryptocurrency okay so if everyone
started using Bitcoin would Bitcoin no
longer be private oh no I see what she's
saying right so why don't we just all
just use the dark web
why not because our eyes peas won't do
that our governments won't do that right
who controls what we actually see on the
Internet
it's not yeah right really yeah I don't
like the word control but when you sign
up for your local internet service
provider they're not hooking up a modem
to the dark web no they're giving you
access to Google and all the the stuff
that we're that we all see as the
Internet you've got Amazon you've got
YouTube you've got and that's all is
there anything else on the on the
Internet Amazon Google YouTube open
category five category five that's
America's on the light net okay not for
that yeah okay millions of Internet
connected machines running the open
source XM mail server may be vulnerable
to a newly disclosed vulnerability that
in some cases allows on us on
authenticated attackers to execute
commands with all-powerful root
privileges the flaw which dates back to
version four point eight seven released
in April 2016 is trivially trivially
exploitable by users with a low
privileged account on a vulnerable
system running with default settings all
that's
is the person to send an email to an
email address on the machine using
injection within the address if the
domain of the injected address exists on
the server and is running a vulnerable
version of exim attackers it can execute
commands of their choice that run with
root privileges the vulnerability is
also remotely exploitable against
default exim setups although an attacker
first must keep a connection to the
vulnerable server open for seven days by
transmitting one bite every few minutes
the researchers from Qualis the security
firm that discovered the vulnerability
didn't rule out other simpler and more
practical ways to have remotely exploit
default setups the vulnerability affects
versions eight are four point eight
seven through four point nine one the
flaw was fixed in version 4 point 9 -
which was released in February but it
was never identified as a vulnerability
what's more many distributions of Linux
have continued a ship with vulnerable XM
versions mm-hmm I think about servers
that are deployed in networks that I
have worked with mm-hmm companies that
set up a mail server in-house and don't
have regular maintenance I am a firm
believer in having maintenance
agreements because not because you know
yeah I want your monthly fee but I want
you to be protected yes so I can think
of a few Network environments that I
know of that have mail servers installed
that are that haven't had me in to
update them in a year and remember that
this vulnerability which is critical
mm-hmm was only patched in February and
never reported as a vulnerability that's
weird it may have been that they didn't
realize the the scale of it until Qualis
figured out that hey this is this is
legit like I can just send an email with
injection code in the address so so
category-five TV my email address is
Robbi at category 5 TV take out that
Robbie and insert injection code so
insert my code here at category 5 TV now
if I was running about it X inversion
this this exploit can execute the code
within the injection script just by
sending that inaudible
it's brutal Wow it just seems easy it's
too easy yeah that's what that's what it
that's the problem so make sure that
your systems are up-to-date I mean the
first thing I did was check all my
servers make sure exam was up-to-date
and thankfully I was yes already
up-to-date yeah I mean I was already
there so I didn't have to worry about it
a simple apt upgrade would probably do
it on a lot of a lot of Debian systems
and it's so easy to do upgrades like
that sure is yeah you just gotta you
gotta set aside some time because
sometimes with an apt upgrade you may
have some things that you know
configuration files that need to be
reconciled or things that might stop
working and you need to just work it out
yeah but generally speaking it's a
pretty flawless right don't do it in
like the 11 that were just before you
really need your system yeah right yeah
Friday at 5 yeah every time Microsoft
has deleted a massive database of 10
million images which was being used to
train facial recognition systems the
database was released in 2016 and was
built of the online images of 100,000
well-known people the database is
believed to have been used to train a
system operated by police forces and the
military the deletion comes after
Microsoft called on US politicians to do
a better job of regulating recognition
systems Microsoft told the FT the
database was no longer available because
the person who had curated it had now
left the company last year Microsoft
president Brad Smith asked the US
Congress to take on the task of
regulating the use of facial recognition
systems because they had quote broad
societal ramifications and potential for
abuse
end quote more recently a Microsoft
rejected a request from police in
California to use its face
Boateng systems in body cameras and cars
the massive set of images called the MS
celeb database was compiled from images
of celebrities found online the mega
pixels project which tracks face
databases said the majority of images
were of American and British actors but
that it added that it also included a
lot of people who must maintain an
online presence for their professional
lives this meant that it included
journalists artists musicians activists
policymakers writers and researchers
even though the data is no longer
available for Microsoft it is probably
still being used by people who
downloaded a copy in the UK police
forces have been criticized for trialing
homegrown facial recognition systems
that have proved to be bad at
recognizing people at one try at one
trial was wrong in 92% of the cases it
flagged that's a little too high two
percent increase is a little bit they've
got a ways to go I think before they
should be using that in law enforcement
they and by the way you can still
download that pack on the dark web so
that'd be yeah Wow now I'll say this
facial recognition stuff you know I
don't know whether or not you have this
where it comes up I guess my Google I
have Google Photos something like that
because Google will sometimes flash up
to pictures of you know family members
and say is this the same person or
different people so I have identical
twin sisters Beth and Colleen so every
once in a while it'll flash out pictures
of you know it's two pictures of Beth is
this the same person and you're like yes
and then a picture of Bath and Colleen
is this the same person that why my
phone keeps calling me mr. clean here's
not funny mm-hmm it just did it for my
sister Mary yeah - you've met she
recently had jaw surgery so her facial
structure is different and so Google was
asking her with two pictures that look
very different is this the same person
interesting yeah so you're trying you
are training
it's AI ya you're training the machine
learning yeah incidentally it turns out
yeah it's interesting with two different
people who look very similar like
identical twins and one person who looks
very different
like in facial surgery right yeah
because it I can understand how a I
would have trouble and how well ninety
two percent wrong is horrible but it's
it's got to be so sophisticated I don't
know if you remember we used to have a
little yeah a Spock bobble head like a
plastic bobble head of Spock on the set
from Star Trek and I uploaded a picture
of us on the show to Twitter and Twitter
tagged Leonard Nimoy yeah yeah just like
that and it's like okay how did it do
that this was years ago so how much
further has machine learning come that
it's able to do that it was able to do
that back then they very quickly turned
off that feature I think like too many
people that got creeped out by it and
thought it was an invasion of privacy
right well yeah it's because they could
probably sell stats to oh yeah
this many people have photos of you on
their profile mr. Nimoy how were you in
so many places at once
explain that google start using it as an
alibi oh no I wasn't a five that day it
shows on Twitter exactly
that'll be amazing Wow
alright we'll move on but all these
funny stuff right facial recognition is
it's going to work at some point it's so
bad right now on sweating yet so amazing
it was right you tagged the right guy it
was a stinking bobblehead mm-hmm and it
did it that was years ago where is it at
now but I think about in the law
enforcement field the risk that we run
is what if some bottle head or
alike gets tagged right yeah don't
criminals just wear Halloween masks
everywhere they go oh yeah right forgot
about that
yeah be for Vendetta it's that's the way
it goes so nobody knows your real face
anyway that's right
your criminal your thing you know that
we are innocent we show her you have
faces well we have faces yeah exactly
Google has revealed more details about
its new video gaming platform stadia
which was first announced in March
stadia is a cloud gaming platform so
instead of buying a games console discs
and downloads players can stream games
over the Internet the service will
launch in November with a limited
edition starter pack for early adopters
Studios such as EA and Bethesda will
provide games but big developers such as
Epic Games are still missing stadia
games will run on servers at Google data
centers around the world with the video
footage streamed to a TV the company
says that it will give gamers over 10
teraflops of graphics processing more
than Xbox one and ps4 combined Google is
showing stadia to journalists this week
at the e3 gaming show and so far they
seem impressed nixed at from the verge
says he was able to play the upcoming
doom eternal shooter through a Chrome
browser window on a pixel book hardwired
into Ethernet and plugged into a samsung
television and he calls the experience
quote quite impressive he says I could
not detect any noticeable input lag and
there was no discernible on-screen
affects indicating the visuals were
being streamed from a cloud server to
the pixel book and then from the pixel
book to the Samsung TV and quote it'll
be interesting in the coming months to
learn how it performs in multiplayer
games and how stadia impacts the cost of
gaming hardware considering you can get
away with using ultra affordable systems
sounds awesome I mean what a great idea
really good and think about like what if
I could install Chrome on
my pine book which you will be able to
and then imagine man that I can actually
use like low powered hardware I mean
think about all the chrome books that
are out there this all of a sudden they
become powerful gaming rigs what uh-huh
I wonder what that'll do sales of the
more expensive gaming right sure
especially if some of the same games
that are available for like the PS 5 or
the Nintendo switch if some of those
games come to the stadia platform yeah
would it start to be like oh maybe I
want to go that route yeah so I guess
cost will be a big thing too and that
will be interesting to to see how that
pans out because I know it's like you
know the subscription fees and
everything it gets pretty complicated
but I guess well in time understand how
that works we will find out and I will
likely have fun anything to do with
gaming she's in pretty much is in that's
pretty much it and and I think that it's
a brilliant idea and I've seen companies
that have tried doing this type of
technology before streaming from your
computer I had one where I had installed
driver on my Windows desktop computer
and then was able to play games on any
of my computers on my network and the
point of that I can't remember who made
this software but the point of it was it
was a Windows computer and they were
Windows games but because of the way it
was streaming the game I could play it
on my Linux machines and and it allowed
me to play on any device it didn't
matter what platform it was so that was
cool but it just like died the project
just died so that this is this is kind
of reminding me of that but you've got
the power of all these Google super mega
servers and you don't have to have high
power high speed high cost any high heat
devices right so the future is friendly
for gamers yeah how does it feel to be
on video
how does it feel to be Intel right right
I want to know if this will compile
unarmed let's take a quick look at coin
gecko here's how the crypto market
looked as of 1800 hours Eastern Time on
Wednesday June 12th 2019 everything is
working its way up Bitcoin is up gaining
three hundred thirty nine dollars and
twenty-nine cents u.s. in the past seven
days it's up at eight thousand one
hundred and four dollars 92 cents
litecoin is at 133 points 76 USD ëthere
IAM is at 255 twenty seven gaining just
under $10 u.s. in the past week monaro
also small gains of three dollars and
three cents at eighty nine a and eighty
nine seventeen u.s. torque is gaining
just a little bit but hey that's what
you can expect for these little guys
zero point eight one ten thousandth of a
cent and our only loser this week down
by get this zero point zero two ten
thousandth of a cent per coin so can you
really call it a loser I mean it's
pretty static at that point turtle coin
is sitting at zero point nine six ten
thousandth of a cent remember that the
cryptocurrency market never closes and
it is always volatile that is true big
thanks to Ray W Nash in our community of
viewers for submitting stories us this
week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson thank you so much for
being here with us today stick around
we've got more show for you we're gonna
be talking about how hey normally I'm
the guy doing the interviews yes I was
the subject of an interview this week
worried I'm gonna tell you all about it
stick around
welcome back everybody this is category
five technology TV been a good week sash
yeah excellent
your week it's been fun and one of the
things now I mentioned I alluded to this
before the break but one of the things
that was fun this week normally when
there are interviews being had here at
the studio who's conducting the
interview I'm like asking the questions
and somebody else is answering them for
me but sometimes once in a while I mean
it's a rare occasion but once in a while
somebody comes across one of my projects
and says oh I got to get this guy on my
show and they're the ones asking the
questions and I'm the guy fielding the
answers so it's a unique opportunity for
me to share from a different perspective
from another side of the desk if you
will about some of the things that I'm
passionate about so hacker public radio
in fact on Monday of this of this week
aired an episode of Jannik the French
guy from Switzerland interviewing me
about my project NEMS Linux lots of fun
it was a great conversation we got into
all kinds of stuff from talking about
nems and Nagios and server monitoring
network monitoring garden monitoring all
the different various things that you
can do with with nems Linux how it kind
of began and evolved and how it's become
something that is available on multiple
different SPC's as well as virtual
appliances how I funded how I'm able to
do that and yet still give it away for
free these things were all covered in
that interview plus taking a one step
further and taking some of the things
like giggle scores and learning how that
works to help us determine the the
quality and the value behind different
single board computers and we just had a
great discussion it's only about 40
minutes out of your time if you want to
check that out
it's cat5 dot TV slash HPR NEMS all one
word so h PR for hacker public radio
NEMS
for nagios enterprise monitoring server
learn all about that but interesting for
me a lot of fun to be on the flip side
of the desk I bet yeah and let me know
what you think of the interview too cuz
that's a you know that's a different
comfort zone for me for sure a lot of
fun I do want to say thank you to those
who are supporting category 5 this week
what is different around here so we've
broadcasted live for the first time from
the same computer in different chassis
so in order to reduce the cost of our
new server built the new broadcast
system build we have a thermaltake level
10 GT server case like beautiful like
gaming case I should say it's got 190
millimeter clearance it's a beautiful
system for a 9900 Kay it's got lots of
clearance for the CPU fan it's got a lot
of room and it's gonna do really well
but in order to free up that case which
had our old like the current broadcast
system in it I had to gut it and move
everything into another case so I
purchased a cheap case off of new egg
and moved all of the hardware into the
cheap case so now that old slightly
decrepit system is now just sitting in a
cheap case but it works let's have a
cheaper case and so now it's so we are
up and running I've moved everything
over to that and now we've got a
basically a free Thermaltake level 10 GT
to build our new system into that's
right so that's pretty pretty sweet so I
think that was a really good call thanks
to marsh man for helping me select some
hardware thanks to Garbi as well for
directing me in that regard and
certainly to now be in that chassis it's
like whoo ok now we can move on now we
can start the build we can get things
started so thank you to those who have
been supporting the project whether
you're a patron or whether you're just
contributing here they
even shopping through our Amazon links
or other partner links that makes a huge
difference as well but I couldn't do
this upgrade without you I couldn't even
do the show without you but you know
paying rent paying our insurance paying
our internet all those things are really
thanks to viewer contributions yeah but
when it comes to needing to invest in
thousands of dollars worth of hardware
which is essentially like a gaming
computer that runs the show it really
couldn't be done without our viewers
support so we're very where we're one
more step closer we're one step closer
to where we need to be by moving
everything into that case and I really
would not have been able to get there
without you so thank you if you'd like
to support us you can do so through
patreon it's a really cool way to do it
patreon.com slash category-five and
what's neat about patreon is you can
give just a little or a lot
each month and whatever you feel
comfortable with you decide and there
are perks like being able to for example
those who are on patreon received many
updates this cut this past week I was
spam and like crazy oh yeah Wow
I say that jokingly because really it's
behind the scenes stuff like if you want
to know what category 5 TV is like
behind the scenes become a patron
because you're gonna get emails you're
gonna get videos exclusive stuff yeah
you get and we got to see step by step
how it went the whole three day process
yeah from the day that the system
arrived the the chassis arrived to the
full build and everything in between so
and there is incidentally on patreon if
you are a patron do check out our like
our home page if you will like the page
for category-five TV there's a new
playlist and that playlist is called
2019 system broadcast system 2019
broadcast system when you click on that
it's going to be all of the videos
pictures blog entries all that stuff
that has to do with the computer built X
which is gonna be really cool so thank
you everybody
that's all the time that we have for
this week though and it's been wonderful
having you here don't forget we are on
twitter at category-five TV I am also
personally on Twitter at Robbie Ferguson
and I do follow back so keep that in
mind when you're deciding who to follow
we're on YouTube as you can probably
imagine just do a quick search for
category 5 technology TV or you can go
to Linux tech show comm I and you can go
and you can go to Linux tech show com
make sure you subscribe to both of those
we're also on roku channel store and you
can get our Plex or Kodi channels and we
mentioned this every single week but I
was surprised to see that some people in
the chat didn't didn't know this right
so I need to reiterate if you use plex
if you use Kodi we have channels already
ready available for you all you have to
do is go to github.com slash cat 5 TV
and you'll be able to download and
install those our main website ties
everything together including RSS feeds
the ability to listen on like google
podcasts and wherever you want to listen
stitcher we're on like a podcast addict
everything that you can possibly think
of so you can do that at our website
category 5 TV thank you so much for
watching everybody and have a fantastic
week see ya
[Applause]
