welcome to today's coffee break
everybody I guess this week's coffee
break ah I've got my coffee how's
everybody doing doing fine thanks Robbie
how are you sir
very well bp9 I see Marsh man Peter and
bp9 are joining me today this is our
first regular Sunday coffee break and it
was like it was a mad dash to figure it
like to get in and get set up and and up
and running to be ready cuz I'm actually
at studio today so how do you like that
glare coming off the forehead from the
skylight eh well enough I got nothing
for some reason my uh my face is hidden
in shadow it usually is not so oh yes
stand by kind of share some light there
yeah so the one thing I'm finding here
at Studio II because it's cool outside
so like the hallways in the mall are
cool but we still have all the equipment
and all the lights and the skylight so
the the AC unit is not equalizing to our
studio so it's it's quite warm in here
so if I stop I'm actually a little bit
on the moist story thanks bp9 oh so I
got a couple of packages woohoo and I
don't Marsh man I don't mean to rub this
in dude I'm not looking I don't look
don't look
that's pretty cool huh oh yeah you
weren't looking you weren't looking
what else did I get so what are you up
to Marsh man I am tired of not being
able to answer the questions about NEMS
and and monitoring Windows machines so I
am trying to figure this out
mmm-hmm I feel you there what I got
you got your pine Book Pro nice and I
got it configured the way I want it no
way I see you've got xfce on there so
it's this Olivia it's a Debian install
it is yeah but it is a it is it's
actually it been - bionic I believe oh
it is okay yeah so so it took me I
signed up way too late last night
figuring out how to make it how to make
it work wow that's the configure see
I've got like a dealer
display on the back yeah that's on the
root window and the only window manager
that lets me do that is actually seeing
how what I can tell so that's why I just
I just love that display so that's cool
very good man I hope you enjoy it except
for the D key it's fine
the D key is giving you grief yeah
all I have to do is just graze it it
doesn't matter what distro why you
should don't wait or the keyboard is too
sensitive or something
Welbeck keys oh dear it's the only
problem so I haven't I haven't looked to
see if you can I know like on a typical
laptop you can pull off the key and
adjust the like the spring mechanism I
wonder if that's worth trying these are
- oh yeah I don't know if they can be
removed or not yeah well I've had the
back off already - have a look at it and
it does not appear - it looks like I
have to completely disassemble the thing
together to give it the power let us
know how that goes yeah well the first
thing to do is to get another key border
yeah maybe see if they'll just replace
it and replace this because I should try
a USB keyboard first and just make sure
that that works yeah there you go forget
about the portability aspect and just
like connecting so much troubleshooting
Marshman I feel your pain dude
we often get
turns on the NEMS forum and on the names
discord names linux asking for Windows
stuff and I don't have a Windows test
environment anymore so so you're
figuring it out and figuring out how to
monitor with WMI yes
count your blessings you don't have a
Windows environment I do every day every
freaking day a lot of folks use it in
business so it makes sense for a
monitoring apparatus to be able to
monitor Windows systems right and it
does if you've got a 90 plus percent
market share what are you going to do it
but my commented I commented on on this
court earlier it's like for all the
problems Windows have it can be
annoyingly secure when you don't want
what do you want ping to work and ICMP
is being blocked yeah think about that
for a second why even why even so in
your internal land you can't by default
ping your device it just doesn't make
sense what you're kidding
ICMP is blocked in the Windows Firewall
by default and and to enable on land so
but so sorry Peter can you mute your
microphone if you can do that please you
have to enable like printer sharing ICMP
like it seems it seems like an unrelated
setting in the firewall but I mean while
it enables pin thief yeah so if you're
trying to see if your servers up and
it's not replying to pings so how are
you what do you wear you at right now
bill is is it coming along I've got I've
got Winton working with the ping and
okay
check CPU cool I'm working on Server
2016 Server 2019 right now get those set
up
but there's uh there's a lot of settings
you got a set and I found you'd have to
add your names user into the Windows
machine oh yeah so you have to you
create Windows user we have the same
matching name yes and you can't simply
set that in MEMS SST does the
authentication for Windows networks work
to override that well no it'sit's you
can you can push it okay you can put as
it put it in SST you can put your him
user in there but it goes to the Windows
machine and the Windows machines like I
don't know who you are right you can say
whoever you who you are but if I if
you're not in my definition you don't
exist
yeah I know security let you in if you
don't know yes try to access a Samba
share if your user isn't a Samba user
yeah or an SSH
you know station yeah the setups are
showing me that you can go into the the
decom which is which is part of the WMI
and in the windows machine yeah there's
a spot for anonymous logon don't work oh
it doesn't work so there's a spot for it
but it doesn't get it's there that's
weird so it has to be clear are you
trying to run mins on a Windows instance
on a window I'm trying to monitor a
Windows machine from a mins ok so now
the old and and this is where a lot of
the confusion comes in and I got
confused with it as well a lot of the
services in Em's even though it's all
they're paying and everything it's all
based on n RPE that's all and you need
to use WMI so I think that's our biggest
problem is all these users are posting
like I'm setting it up and it's not that
kind of like yeah that's because it's
it's an old set up and you
and for NR PE you could get it working
if you install NS client on the Windows
machine and then jump through all these
hoops of fire and windows to get it to
work but that's just an old way of doing
it oh yeah and that RP is great for
Linux but yeah tough on what is this
network protocol that is allowed it's
not SMTP that's a simple mail transfer
protocol they've seen an EP or something
yeah SNMP is still a thing anymore yeah
yeah yeah we've got SNMP trapping on
UNM's ok oh it's gonna ask why wouldn't
you use a sending crate
windows includes WMI so you can
presumably be able to access statistics
like the CPU usage the RAM usage the
hard drive space all that stuff is all
built into WMI so that's what it's
that's what it's designed for usage
fantastic I don't think I have the
parameters correct for the windows the
CPU though cuz right in its average CPU
utilization need at least 2 WM I samples
so I don't think I have that set up
exactly Corona
ok but if you posted on that Aki that's
great yeah you got further than me cuz I
don't even have a Windows machine yeah
I've been like I'm so seriously I've
talked about it on the coffee break I'd
love to get like a 3u server chassis and
put a computer in there that's really
quiet and now it's like oh man because
if I could do that with a powerful
enough server or just a desktop machine
inside of a server case then I could
virtualize and create a sudo like
virtual Windows Network so that I don't
have to actually put Windows machines
around right so but if the aim is to be
able to monitor Windows machines then
you have to do what mash man is doing
over there - yeah yeah put a Windows
machine on the network and point names
at it and okay what do you got yeah
in a virtual in a virtual machine
Network I could just create a Windows
machine and I don't have to start
monkeying with one of my production
servers or something because I don't I
don't need it I don't need to monitor
Windows systems because I don't have any
so so for me it's just I have to be able
to provide documentation to the users so
I think bill everything that you're
doing is going to be fantastic because
you're basically doing what I don't have
the capability to do yes the I just spun
up to two VMs on my dad knows there's a
2016 and a 2019 so see my servers out of
space I don't have space on my server
hard drive space so that's my problem
because I want like two windows I run
into Windows on a daily basis on my job
first moved in there Robbie when you
first got it I said that's gonna be
great now whoops I'm actually I'm comedy
blading yeah Lincoln well I only work
for Mert I'm usually to turn nighttime
oh that was weird feedback yeah that was
my fault I'm sorry it was trying oh yeah
c'mon
oh I see I'll be right back alright well
that's cool bill thank you so much for
for taking care of that because that's
something that has been lacking for a
very long time yeah yeah a nice I hear
the frustration and the questions and
I'm like yeah and the the issue is is
that the service is there right check
WMI plus is installed and active and
configured and everything works great
but you have to know how to set it up in
order to do it and I haven't created any
documentation to do that there's a lot
of steps yeah so that's gonna be that's
gonna be great yeah glad to do it
thanks man I got a couple of things here
have arrived figure I'll show you guys
first what do you think that's for
we're going for dummies did you hide
there
yeah it looks like that restaurant free
pie a raspberry pie high quality camera
it's out of focus but you were you were
bad-mouthing it for the cost
I really should yeah did you get one
yeah oh there's the lens okay cool did
you get I think they sent both oh oh
they sent yes yes cuz he's at anybody
sent both yeah he's a TV star now don't
you know so this is poor evaluation only
[Laughter]
there we go closer yeah how many
gigabytes are a mass at vp9
looks like a gigabyte compatible
software required with an important note
cuz I can't read because it's that's
very PI 4 8 gig compatible but that's
gonna I'm gonna turn that into an M
server I think that's gonna be our nem
server here at the studio cuz that's
gonna be pretty brutally awesome for
power but it's got the argon one as well
so for 12 volt you can put you can put
any vault into that okay right because
just anybody
yeah sorry remember Robbie you don't
have the documentation yes we say five
point two volts max yes max well the
reason I asked was because a mirror
droid already found the floor in the
layout of your 1u rack server rack cuz
you had some 12 volt and five volt
single board computers out there yes and
you were planning to
them all on one voltage so you were
gonna make some fireworks if I mistake I
wouldn't make that mistake just
physically laid them out and then
realized God that yet yeah it would have
been under voltage though anyways that
was what I asked not to give much man a
hard time but that little guy the 8gig
is gonna go in the argon one of course
and names Linux compatibility
yeah the argon one case are you familiar
with that no that's a fantastic looking
case I told ya so but it's got the it's
got an IO that comes off the board so
that all of the jacks are on the back
unlike the traditional Raspberry Pi case
where you end up with some stuff on the
front and the side and so they're not
really not really so it puts everything
out the back yeah and it's got a
software power switch so you can program
what you want it to do when you push the
power button mm-hmm it's gonna be pretty
cool yeah it from Amazon I got the
currently unavailable we don't know what
to do yeah look so I waited and waited
and waited and ordered it from China and
then the next day in typical Amazon
style well they said they were getting
it yeah say it's it's doing Amazon buy
on the 12th of June
yeah it's do in and then they can ship
mine's already on its way so yeah you
think Amazon got the shipment now got
the units from the same place you
ordered her from in China you know
well they had him and then they went out
of stock and waited for a while and I
got fed up and watered him Amazon's got
buying power though an Amazon will have
will warehouse enough of them that the
price is lower right so it's kind of
worth waiting but that's good that you
got one coming anyway it looks like a
really sleek case you got the 8 gig
Raspberry Pi yes they do
I've heard they're having trouble with
supply and demand
because all of us geeks decided to buy
one or multiple the day that they were
released yeah it was something to do
while we're still in true
you know houses right that's right yeah
but and and Beckham made mention of it
on the news this week and one of the
comments was really valid is is that it
looks like raspberry pie is actually
going on going after the low-end desktop
market which is really an interesting I
think it's still a little underpowered
CPU wise like the SOC itself oh no what
do you think Marsh man how have you
found it I that is perfect for the
low-end market right there yes yeah that
if this is the device this is the one
for sure mm-hmm
I have only been running MEMS on on the
8 gig so far okay yeah as we you know
you're in into a couple of snags during
the week so I think that's all it's been
doing yeah okay honey I'm using the
three B plus two to do all the windows
testing that's cool
oh and to go back to the to the
incorrect power supply know the order I
just got from Mary Joy
I ordered an X you four and an emmc
module and I ordered a power supply for
my Rock Pro right which is a larger
power supply but a marriage riod that
the shipper they notice that and they
sent me an email saying we noticed you
ordered an X you four and this larger
power supply
this for something else because we don't
want you to blow up your board they were
really good on them good on them yeah
said I said no it's for it it's for
another one you got it thank you
very good and then they shipped that's
fantastic that's good to hear I mean
you're not gonna get that kind of
service from Amazon that's for sure I
love that attention to detail and gummi
bears
because you've got to get gummy bears
right yep
now why is your robot not following you
around Robbie what's up with that this
isn't the robot I know it isn't because
I've seen you walking around yes
following you around no no that's that's
for that's the robot cam that's a
different camera this is special event
for us riffraff on the coffee break I'm
on I'm on the a camera what are you
talking about this is like our most
expensive camera although I got a tone
down the exposure because of my forehead
under these lights just a little bit
yeah you forgot the white balance or
didn't you
I didn't bother for colour break come on
now just so you know Robbie I just got
Server 2016 working and MEMS is seeing a
fantastic oh that's great Oh Phil you're
doing such a such a service for the
community thanks man need so you're
gonna have Lazarus
like a Lazarus program running
presumably as like a demon or something
on a raspberry
yeah yeah yeah okay yeah I'll tell you I
think you can compile it and they could
polygroup all the time give me ready
money does you know code
yeah so what is what Peters talking
about is he showed this in our discord
he's built a sine wave generator oh
you've got it with you you know just rip
off your headset and throw it on the
ground
come on so he's gonna with the Raspberry
Pi he's got four buttons on the front of
this thing and he's gonna be able to
push it and it's gonna interact with the
GPIO and then it's gonna control this
circuit that he's designed to be able to
create the sine waves yeah that's cool
it's way it's what I say it's cool it's
way beyond me
it's like I'm I'm down here you're up
there Jane Jim I think you're Lincoln
bitch goes across with well Peggy's
would make you know I I'm just being
honest that I don't understand any of it
but I like it and I want it I want to
learn how to do like more like like my
circuits my circuits are like relays
I'll do a circuit that's just a relay
and an LED and that's about that's the
level that I'm adding lights go on now
if I can make them go on and off and on
and off on a schedule oh you guys want
to know what I did remember how oh if
you saw the feature the QA on mikrotik
hmm I actually set our guest Wi-Fi to
automatically turn off during
non-business hours no so on the mikrotik
I've got it on a schedule so that the
guest Wi-Fi is not on 24/7 it's only on
should be in use so people can't use it
after hours and stuff so the reason I
asked you a while ago rob you about
running one microchip grabba and who
internet modems yeah that's a pretty
normal
yeah configuration do like a failover
internet so what we all I do or just let
it every at real-time pick the best part
figure out which is the best moment to
use for you typically we want a hat we
want to say the fastest one is always
the default because you don't want your
IP address changing all the time you're
gonna get routing problems and you're
gonna and then you're gonna like your
sessions are gonna change every time the
IP changes and everything so we pick the
best path which would be the fastest
internet connection and then if that one
goes down then we failover to something
like LTE or DSL something else so that
there's a failover okay so that means
there's only ever one in service at any
given time that's my preference favor
you and mute that microphone you thank
you my preference my preference is to
have a failover but that's because
typically I mean internet I've got one
really good connection and the other one
is like LTE five megabits a second so I
really only want that to be so that
internet never goes down but I never
want it to be my normal chain right well
you've seen it you've seen it happen to
me on coffee break with you and it's
gone down once twice three times
sometimes right you know which to my
regular phone so what you need to do
that is you'd have to have you'd have to
have a oh what's the term I know it and
yes mikrotik can help you with it
bond bonding you have to have an
internet bond so you have two
connections that are then creating one
connection and then the router will will
decide where that traffic goes okay but
the problem you can run into if you're
using like say you're using a streaming
service where like say Netflix where
you're authenticated on the Netflix
service or something right I don't know
how it will react to that because you
knows your IP address and and where you
are and so if all of a sudden you're on
a different IP address will that affect
things or I don't know and I would
imagine it session based so whatever but
yeah program ease it would be it would
have established the session probably
can't imagine no matter but I agree I
makes me I don't know that I want to pay
for a whole new internet service and
have to coming to the house just on the
off chance that I have to here I have to
here and I'm only using one but they but
provided by the same internet provider
well I have no I have a cellular
connection and I have the coax so I'm
only running on the coax cuz I'm like
yeah the cellular was just too slow I
didn't didn't want to go to the effort
I might connect it but yeah use it as a
failover but I'd hate to be in the
middle of a show and all of a sudden be
and finally if it's a second you say
that but when you're streaming 2k video
not so much you'd rather it go down yeah
so I'm trying to decide if it's worth my
while to just bring for another service
the only two options I have here how
often does it go down well that's the
key right that's the thing it's just not
often enough yeah but it just it's it's
either when I'm streaming YouTube or
streaming Netflix yeah but it doesn't
happen often enough it's just enough to
annoy me but not enough to write look to
make me do any anything about yeah so
but I was trying to figure out if the
mikrotik would would help me with that
attempt like it can but what I thought
it would do is is just on the fly pick
which is the best path to use but you're
right did not think of those other room
those other corns yeah mine because my
router has that as that option of two
wins to services coming in so so you
look at a micro tech if it has five
ports you you can actually set what each
of those ports are so it comes by
default as port one as your wand
or but you could have you could set
three of them as one ports and then and
then you can bridge them yeah and you
can create a bonded Network but that's
beyond anything I've ever done I just
have done failover so that if the first
you know I prioritize the first one is
the best one so if it ever goes down
move to the second one and then if the
first one comes back up moved back to
the first one which fight which would
work but again as you say even zoom
might get cranky
it might yeah you're gonna have that
hiccup as you change services yeah it'll
it'll be momentary but yeah which case
my outages are usually just a few
minutes
yeah often they're not often longer than
that not enough that I would just shut
it off and be done with it but it's the
frequency of the Attic just that bitch
what gets me that when I was when I got
knocked off three times off of a zoom
I'm done with this and I fired up my
phone as a hotspot you've been rated
rock steady ever themes as a final
thought then you set your phone as a
hotspot and then you create a Wi-Fi
connection from your mikrotik to your
Wi-Fi hotspot on your phone okay and
then you share that as a bridge to your
network so now you're no now your land
can connect through your cell phone's
connection and in fact that's a great
way to be able to extend your Wi-Fi in
the house too you just stick a cheap
mikrotik up in in the top floor and all
of a sudden you've extended your Wi-Fi
and just using micro tech devices fiber
gigabit fiber there you go well guys
that's all the time that we have for a
coffee break today I think we'll we'll
try Sunday again next week if this has
worked for you guys it's close to
working for me I've got to figure out
kind of my schedule completely once we
lock it down then it'll become a regular
routine kind of like the normal show
which is always live Wednesday's 7 p.m.
sharp
right
yes I'll see you Wednesday I don't know
what time I'll be here but I'll see you
guys take care
