welcome to category five technology TV
great to have you here again with us
this week we've got some sci-fi
television news coming up I mean hey I'm
fully decked out for the Orval because
we're gonna be looking at a new game
that has finally released it's probably
$100 though right
oh no no it's absolutely free it's a fan
creation you're not gonna believe what
no I'm serious Henry you're not gonna
believe it seriously it's free yeah and
imagine being able to set foot on the
decks of the Orval this is like this is
actually happening excited this is real
life you are not dreaming right now and
this is gonna be incredible so I'm
actually a fired up we're gonna take a
look at the Orville interactive fan
experience we're gonna get a little bit
of a tour and we all have and this is an
exceptional this is so exciting I'm
really really looking forward to this so
I hope you are too
if you're a Norvell fan awesome if
you're not you will be soon
stick around also we're gonna be taking
a look at an LED light system that is
available at a very economical price and
is absolutely waterproof if you want to
submerge it then you can find all kinds
of uses we've got a lot to cover tonight
we're gonna have a lot of fun yeah stick
a red sash is not here sash not here but
we're still gonna have fun of course
okay
don't go anywhere we'll be right back
this
category-five technology TV our live
recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with telly stream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech gets here
cat 5 TV slash TPM and the International
Association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB welcome to the show
everybody its episode number 618 of
category 5 technology TV SAS has got the
night off and Henry was able to join us
my friend how you doing I'm back second
time in a year Jeff's here I don't know
if I've ever done a show with Henry is
this your first time I don't know this
is gonna be a good one we have but it's
been a very very long Jeff you're gonna
enjoy this cuz Henry is very agreeable
excellent not at all argumentative and
this is gonna be a great show we've got
a lot of great content as well Before we
jump into the show itself let's just
kind of hit things runnin with some
sci-fi TV news we don't often do like
you know general media news however is
this worthy no absolutely but a couple
weeks ago I was talking about how the
new Star Trek Picard show as silly as
the name is I mean they could have come
up with something a lot more creative
perfect to do you what's his name I know
Star Trek but guard call it that they
could have called it Earl Grey do
anything with a little bit more
creativity to it it's it's perfect
because it's exact and you know exactly
what to expect yes yes and because it's
about Picard it's not about a new ship
or a new endeavor it's about it isn't it
that's that's what I don't know I guess
we'll see however I'm back a couple
weeks ago when I was talking about it we
did know by rumor that brent Spiner was
going to be rejoining as data oh I was
about to say Lieutenant Commander data
hood I'm like no this is 20 years in the
future it's quite probable he has
progressed the ranks is progressed his
positrons have have evolved like I say
has a mastered emotion I don't guess
there's always a chance of that but also
we got to keep in mind that the data
died right so he's a computer just
reboot him know he was destroyed he back
thanks to Klaus so that's wonderful he
listened to our advice and had redundant
backups so we'll we'll see how that
shapes in but we've got great news this
week and we find out that Jerry L Ryan
is joining the cast as well yes so
that's an interesting mashup because
Jerry Ryan who plays seven of nine on
Star Trek Voyager yeah right so not a
part of the next-generation team from
that show it was it was Voyager a couple
years later that then she was involved
in so so she's gonna be there yeah and
we've also heard are you ready for this
Jonathan Frakes exciting and I actually
heard about Jonathan Frakes from another
cast member who's going to be rejoining
whoa Star Trek remember told you know
where you heard it I heard tell you what
I was sitting down for coffee with
marina and marina said that her and
Jonathan were gonna be a part of the
show so we have
Will Riker and Deanna Troi are a part of
Star Trek Picard universe so now I'm
like what this is like the next
generation family reunion now yes I want
to hear that levar has been invited back
I want to hear that that Gates has been
invited back and you know the whole crew
I mean just just to let bygones be
bygones wouldn't it be nice if Wil
Wheaton was welcome back okay with it if
he shows up makes a comment and Picard
goes shut up Wesley Wesley Crusher cameo
right there is absolutely brilliant and
now you know transitioning over to the
Orville ya entertainment news so and
thinking of the Orville who actually has
quite a few cast members from Star Trek
but we're not talking as well hop corn
know the Orville they have an
interesting announcement this week in
that even though Fox creates a show they
because of the the way that their
special effects have evolved in the
first two seasons season two was nuts
and it's actually really kind of amazing
that their studios were able to pull
everything together and have everything
ready because it was just hey incredible
guys and because of that the demands of
their production schedule they're not
going to be able to meet Fox's timetable
for a mid release midseason release so
they have announced that they're moving
the Orville season 3 to Hulu to Hulu oh
not yet sure how that impacts us here in
Canada yeah certainly American audience
is gonna feel the impact of that now
just Fox still owned it but they'll just
be putting it off it's gonna really it's
been a really interesting time hasn't it
because Fox was bought by Disney yeah so
yes Fox still produces it now it's a
fuzzy door production
that's Seth MacFarlane's yeah yeah and
and Fox is the I guess the creating
studio that's where they produce it and
where they film it but as far as the
broadcast end of it it's not going to be
happening on Fox's network it's going to
be happening on Hulu which takes it away
from the old traditional medium I guess
because Fox being a terrestrial station
as well as digital yeah and puts it on
exclusively digital format so it makes
me wonder if Fox will still air it but
only after the rest of the season has
gone live on as a rerun yeah yeah
because I can't see them walking away
from the ad revenue exactly right mmm
like they had revenue hmm I'm you know
what I don't know as I say how that's
gonna affect us here in Canada
interesting interested to hear if it's
actually going to affect you or is it
just gonna be a case where hey we'll
just sign up for Hulu because we love
the show so much that's a possibility to
Disney's streaming service it may be on
various services too yeah well if you're
just commented and apparently Fox may or
may not have some share of Hulu right so
if it's like a same company oh maybe
there's some oh I didn't know that it's
everybody owns everybody I'm one
corporation owns everything I was really
expecting them to dress as Disney
Princesses in season three with
pronouncement that Disney bought them
out so I guess I guess that's not
happening they still need the special
effects team to take care of things so
MacFarlane need a princess dress yes and
he would be singing some crooning
crooning and he's great at that too
speaking of the Orval we do have to take
a really quick break but when we come
back we're Celebrezze like this folks
it's not Halloween
that's your honor early
this is just how I dress y'all get one
public yeah but the Orville fan
interactive fan experience is now
available for free download you can get
it on Steam stick around after the break
we're gonna be coming back and we're
gonna be showing you how it looks don't
go anywhere
[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV we've got this cord
working and chat was letting us know
that things weren't moving there as we
chatted during the break
also we're learning that that some of
our viewers are already watching the
Orville on hulu yeah so it's not gonna
impact them whatsoever that that this
announcement has come forth so that's
that's really cool all right so we're
gonna jump into it now keep in mind what
you're about to see is a fan production
really so it is not officially endorsed
by the creators of the Orville however
it is allowed under the fact that it's a
fan creation that's cool right like you
think fan fiction and and it's it really
is so messy door has come together
they've been on the show we've talked
with them about this project as it was
coming up and and they've done a
fantastic job this is just a group of
wonderful talented fans of the Orville
who just loved the show and loved
creating and boy oh boy are they ever
talented ok wait sit and what we're
about to see Jeff is a very early
release so this is now available for you
on Steam I have not been able to get it
to run on Linux yet I'm not quite sure
if it's available for Linux yet I don't
think that it's available for VR yet
however oh those those things are all in
the plan that's gonna be so cool so keep
in mind this is the initial release and
we're running this on
hardware that is already taxed to the
max here tonight so you're not gonna get
the full experience you're gonna be able
to see just kind of a preliminary this
is what is coming out of messy desk
right now and and well let's take a look
you're ready to jump on board the
Orville here we go go to cap five dot TV
slash Orville game you can install
multiplayer yes
oh so you alright cuz you can customize
your own character I I want to do that
first Jeff let's I want to see this
intro and this is look at the mazes all
fan-made that's some slick run well done
team I think we're living living in the
future now yeah yeah so consider I mean
we all love the Orville and this is a
creation by its fans
unreal alright let's let's jump into
edit character mode first I want to see
what kind of functionalities they're
keeping in mind that this is like the
earliest release that you that this is
the first release so this is there's
still more to come
it's a work in progress nice I love the
cinematics yeah that's good that's
awesome so we've got some looks like
character bases so we can just kind of
choose the base skin hey there you go
purple flurp smooth nice sweet oh you
can be a Kalon as well so much
customization very nice
hey considering that this is the first
release I'm actually surprised that they
were able to get this in here so this is
awesome detail like look how many
choices you have well and it's switch is
so quick and smooth hmm sweet well done
on the skins everyone as well Wow yeah
they've got lots of options just started
so these are just bases that you can
start with and then you can yeah I think
so oh yeah cuz each one of these is like
just a like a base skin let's okay so
which one are we gonna settle up I think
let's go with the mock one walk will be
like vortice alright okay we can choose
our division nice although it basically
just changes the the outfit yep
very good
and listed now did the division and
maybe I'm jumping had I don't know but
did the divisions we're gonna redshirt
special skills or is it just simply
because I don't know okay all right we
will find I don't know if we will
tonight that oh I can change the eye
color too oh look at that I can zoom
right in well nice Oh
Android machlin nice what color air
Macklin's eyes naturally or are they
like humans that it varies
I think them
I don't know you can actually change
using an RGB color wheel but sweet let's
try to get this as realistic as you
should you know I use shrugging his
shoulders that's fun okay I see we can
change the body as well
wow they fit in a lot of stuff for the
like out the gate release oh look just
really characters yeah if only nice I'm
gonna go with a slender v mock this guy
has been working out in the in the
hollow space let's just say no comments
about what's program right all right
let's do it
I'm not gonna do multiplayer because I
have a feeling we're not going to be
able to support it during a live show
because this can use networking but
let's jump in and see which one did you
vote
look at the Hat the cinematix folks I
just love those that's nice so I'm like
I have awoken in my quarters
all those are clean graphics I'm all
wait cool board is's quarters that's
awesome okay now you said you were
running this on the everything servers
did you just throw that I bumped it
there something also is a physics-based
environment as well turn on the water I
can so let's see if I can I could yeah
you can see reflections and everything
Oh imagine that
yeah it doesn't seem like this is
responding like I can't like it's not an
active terminal yet okay placeholder I'd
love to can we synthesize some
cigarettes it's not it doesn't seem to
do anything that's fine okay so a lot of
it I mean this is like the the initial
tour like let's take a look whoa mouse
is a little bit janky I'll be honest I
wonder if there's a way I can adjust
settings at the beginning you probably
adjust our activity alright we can check
that out crowd still nice different
views sweet I pushed see and then
control button okay oh look at the mess
hall this just looks so authentic I know
and it gives a look of like I feel like
I'm actually on board like I feel like
I'm putting some dimension Suzumiya oh
my goodness scrag nug nice a nod to one
of the game creators
scrag nog huts can you guys read that I
cannot no all right okay so I feel like
as when the Orville when I watch the
overall I need to go look viewe this
you see if it matches up yeah like it
does like really you're like this is
this is the layout that I envision that
is so cool we got like a science lab or
something like that
okay cool Oh even on the outside you can
see the different portions of the ship
that's that's nice nice
oh that's the stairwell that was in the
like the staff photo no it's locked
locked you so they say you know I need a
key where does this actually go I've
only ever seen the picture from the
bottom would you find out you choose
medical officer as your I chose security
just because I wanted to be a redshirt
all right I can't go through there but
it's not red oh there's an open oh nice
yeah this is the captain's office look
at this oh man can you pick up the no I
can't I'm clicking and no right back up
I don't know how it looks like it wants
to be picked up one day okay and maybe
that's it maybe it's just it's not been
implemented yes you're not allowed to
shoot Kermit yet today not yet look at
that guy's Wow show her the office it
does I was trying to articulate look at
the detail books where's the Apple
missing
so cool I love the model too and even
the like the detail with the the ivory
sculptures there yeah that's phenomenal
wow you look kind of like local that
shares in my way I can't seem to remove
things but maybe there's like a control
what's that it's some kind of button or
something so they charge their iPhones
it's a Qi charging station oh I'm on the
chair okay
oh nice Park liqueur whoa okay look at
the camera come on look at the camera
dude this is impressive for a fan
creation I mean in its first iteration
yeah oh I just feel like this is just
giving me a sense of the layout of the
ship we've never really had this like
the ability to actually tour it and
figure out how things are connected yeah
like how did they do this okay Wow
this even seems to be like depth wise
the same as I think it's to ship like
it's like testing it does seem to scale
yeah they've used 100% can really Wow we
know that they're actually full of
really fine malt whiskey
going in here I would like to try oh
this is his quarters okay oh nice Wow
beautiful detail everybody had a fall in
my room with stairs this is like a
multi-level Captain's Quarters nice oh
it makes sense because it's gotta have a
spot to sit and do his work right right
so this must lead out to another
corridor okay Oh sickbay it makes sense
of the the captain could just run across
the hall and get his shots that's right
yeah sweet this is phenomenal every
little detail folks you got to watch the
show back and just see how much detail
what you see desk has put into like
placement of objects and all of the
little minor details that we may not
even catch on the show or you can
recreate how to show here okay so
obviously this is obviously the first
version but is eventually you can have
characters like computer-generated
characters Oh
yeah I would imagine so it's possible to
use her environment
I just want to her you said this is
single if I just wanted to her you
notice all these doors that are locked
yes these are gonna lead somewhere deaf
so right yeah right now it's just I
think I'm back where I was I'm gonna get
turned around to talk and walk and at
the same time yeah the corridor is all
look the same right I guess once you get
used to it though you're gonna know your
way around I really want to find like
engineering or something like that
though hmm I'm not seeing it it's gotta
be here yeah oh nice
what can you pick it up I'm trying such
it let me pick you up yeah it's not let
me click her anything okay looks cool
though yeah but it looks very good yeah
I imagine that old meeting room briefing
Wow where are we going yeah I just want
to show you the wide shot there look at
that that's phenomenal
just beautiful can I interact with
objects no it doesn't look like yeah
yeah the physics are coming not there
necessarily yet so so I know there's
right now good yes left coffee
everywhere you're messy yeah oh there's
we'll say
Deanna's classroom yes
maybe a closet or something that's not
opening
what's down here this is oh that's
that's where I came from
okay another locked door yeah space whoa
that's so pretty
Wow okay now that's interesting I there
was no stars because I'm in the void
Jeff don't remember I chose the boy so
why was there Sun flare it was there
solar flare there oh yeah on the yeah
see I'm getting turn around here and I'm
not finding engineering I feel like we
need to drop ah maybe they haven't added
it yet yeah we definitely could use a
map that's locked as well yeah this is
slick what do you folks think so far I
mean you could see the collar like
Ameritrade likes it wants to play it in
VR
oh definitely and that is coming alright
so keep in mind this is an early release
some of the jank eNOS that you're seeing
is me some of it is just that it is an
early release Internet and they're
they're still like working like crazy
and it's a fan creation and for a fan
creation this is just super came out of
love put into this the excellent job
what an opportunity for us fans to be
able to tour the ship that we're growing
to love here after season two of the
Orville has has wrapped up and we're all
preparing for season 3 this is gonna
take me back to my quarters okay
yeah I notice in the chat room me geek
75 said that already downloaded it but
didn't want to play it because we wanted
to see it first five sweet that's
awesome thanks for the love
all right yeah this is except okay I
don't think it's so funny here yet this
is the other side of the mess hall yeah
oh and I I feel like I've been
everywhere so far so keep in mind that
as a work-in-progress
where we're gonna see more rooms open up
we're gonna see more more features like
the like these replicators maybe we're
gonna see those start to function as
well I know that's in the plans just
awesome though that's fair should we
yeah I'm not I'm not finding any other
rooms I think we've pretty much seen
everything there is to see I feel like
there's been so many doors though so
many doors maybe they all kind of lead
to the same area yeah locked let me in I
want to see where you lead
maybe that's engineering you think so or
no it's a was it a sick day oh right the
other end of sick bay let's try starting
a new game okay in a different mode I
wonder if there's like different so what
do we got you need Dockyard the void saw
and asteroid field Oh
asteroid field says you're gonna be on
the Orval with lieutenant dam
oh that's excited it's do that
is he actually there once again it gets
me every time yeah transition all right
this is now we learn oh look outside or
he's got ya go chair in my way base are
we back in bored asses quarters yes we
are okay okay so I guess that's our
wakeup point but we do have more visuals
outside okay so we're learning the
layout it's gonna take some time I think
it's like anything right you gotta learn
where things are no you said Dan isn't
this one well that's what the
description said walk fine in a lot of
locked doors so I feel like there's
still a lot to come like stuff that
they're still working on maybe there's
stuff back there but an elevator music
oh my gosh engineering engineering nice
I swear that wasn't there before this
music is making me giggle
there we go open open please let me in
Oh it's all holosuite I don't know what
do they call it on the Orville I'm
getting in trouble for using Star Trek
terms yeah look at the holodeck everyone
Wow I wonder if this is ever gonna be
functional about incredible
could you play this game in the game
whoa mind bent sweet we're there okay I
just got you all beautiful man that's so
exciting
mmm look at this wow I feel like they
got every element
did they have Tom like go through here
with a video camera on the real set just
like hey here's what it's supposed to
look like
this is way too authentic this is how I
see like movement in the in the warp
engine there I'm not sure what powers a
union starship
it can't be dilithium because that would
be a Star Trek thing right that would be
copyright no it wouldn't
I don't know they probably would knowing
CBS dilithium is a Star Trek trademark
no it's a real element tricked or a
theoretical element I'm not sure Marsh
man says like hits in a candy shop I was
about to say like he nailed this one
yeah totally kids at Acadia shoppers
don't discussion this is phenomenal like
you're right in VR I think it was a
marriage I said earlier like you could
do a vacation on this and for somebody
who wants to go into space this could
totally be
something that they could spend time in
mm-hmm
well especially if you're a big fan of
the Orval because I feel like look like
this has just taken me there and now
this project you probably recognize we
kind of the the look of it let's let's
jump up to to the shuttlebay I think I
clicked on the wrong one see if I can do
it again this is from the same creators
as the original stage 9 which was the
NCC 1701 D Starship Enterprise but of
course that got the cease and desist
from CBS so that's you know that's where
my tongue in cheek joke comes from but
but so there's a lot of shopping you can
you can see that that talent just
shining through and this is just
but it's performing very very well I've
got everything set to max Wow it's very
slick very clean just like the Orville
lots of corridors yeah I think you're
right I don't think this was in the void
go inside I think there's only a section
there's a whole other section that's
strange
yeah no I haven't where is Dan yeah I
haven't seen him dude is that the behind
them yeah I didn't go see I can't get
past these chairs and I can't seem to
sit on them or anything like that so so
lots of features that are still to come
right I can't what is that you guys see
that no I missed it
ooh Oh Oh the pre corner I got some in
my mouth oh my gosh I just wanted to
know if it was sloshed the Orville yeah
you guys are awesome and disgusting
thanks for the laughs I think we've seen
kind of all that I can show you on our
live broadcast here this week but there
you go
Wow like look at even the the shuttle
model yeah I can't wait to be able to
fly that oh that's interesting in the
bottom corner says health 100 yeah I
noticed that
yeah obviously there's some component of
damage built in eventually I think so
maybe some PvP you think we could like
go head-to-head just awesome that is a
fan creation walkthrough of the Orville
it's called the Orville interactive fan
experiencing pick it up absolutely free
on steam at cat5 dot TV slash Orville
game I'm downloading tonight go check it
out again I haven't got it working on
Linux yet I think it's coming for Linux
I see the icon on Steam shows Windows
and Mac okay I was able to install it on
my Windows 10 machine and then play it
on Steam from my Linux machine but it
was through the like the streaming
version of steam but it wasn't actually
running natively on my computer okay so
definitely it works great it seems to
work great on Windows 10 and my specs
aren't super super awesome so yeah check
it out cat 5 TV slash Orval game please
comment below let us know what you think
and we'll pass that along your kudos to
the team who has created that do check
them out that link cat 5 TV slash Orval
game will actually take
due to their official website so you can
learn more about the project learn more
about the team and in fact download the
game absolutely free because it's a fan
project from Steam check it out hi so
you have to take a really quick break
everybody thank you for being here stick
around
welcome back everybody I've got Jeff and
Henry with me I am Robbie Henry you're a
big fan of single board computers why
yes I am Robbie why do I ask Oh wouldn't
you like to know bow was here from a
marriage right couple weeks ago on
episode 616 and he showed us something
really like that intrigued me impressed
me and excited me was it the mini spc
the size of a stamp that was cool the
one I'm thinking of is called oh that
fluster board yeah what oh oh I think
you forgot it he left it for me
bless his heart so absolutely rocks so
this is Henry I'm just gonna explain
this quickly to you because you haven't
been here and you weren't here for
episode 616 tend to learn these slots
that look like memory module slot yeah
each one takes a single board computer
really a module there called the a 64 so
pine modules or Esso pine modules from
pine 64 that's each module has four
cores
what yeah yeah each module has two gigs
of RAM okay and a micro SD card reader
the board the cluster board mm-hmm has
GPIO headers for all seven of the boards
Wow USB two for all seven of the boards
plus a USB micro plus you've got an emmc
shared reader here you've got real-time
clock
you've got Gigabit Ethernet and all of
these are connected to a single Gigabit
Ethernet port so they're communicating
with your network so essentially this
can either be a cluster so you've got
the power of all of those cords yes
right or they can be individual
computers so you can plug this in and
have seven computers show up in your
network and that really excites me
because I'm thinking like some of the
things that I could do like this would
be a Titan PI server yes this would be
an enemy's Linux server this would be
like a Debian server doing some I scuzzy
target distribution on my network to
give me a network shares yes this one
could be an FTP server this one could be
a lamp stack to host my website this way
like I've still got two left and I'm out
of ideas okay so here's a question
though with all of them connected all of
them running if one became compromised
through a network vulnerability would
all be compromised
no because each one is an individual
computer so okay so I say no well
possibly but no different than having
seven individual computers are better
than getting compromised right but be
smart about your security right of
course yeah and that's that's important
but each one is basically its own
computer it's like having seven
computers on your network but it's built
into one board I'm gonna show you what
the computer itself looks like Henry oh
my gosh this is the computer that's
smaller than my phone that's it
smaller than your phone you could fit
ten of these in your phone yeah it's
just that the phone doesn't have the
proper backplane yeah yeah that's all so
we've got microSD we've got the a 64 SOC
just a gorgeous little card so this goes
in here just like a memory module it's
actually yeah you got to put it in the
right way Robbie yeah there you go so I
would have seven of these would be seven
different computer cool guys but then
I'm looking at this and I'm like okay
well what do I do
about mounting it and I started looking
at some really cool and micro ATX cases
and thinking about that kind of thing
and then you got to get a special power
supply I did try my standard
power supply on this like a nice
Thermaltake ATX power supply yeah but
this is only a 5 volt draw Oh so isn't
working there's no 12 volts so it's not
it's not drawing enough it's not drawing
anything from the 12 volt so my power
supply doesn't show power good and it
doesn't it doesn't power up yeah so then
I thought well I could put some inline
resistors to draw on the 12 volt channel
and power up the power supply but then
I've got to mash up the cabling on my
powers so then I started thinking okay I
could buy a different power supply okay
then I got talking to one of my friends
who happened to have an old mono wall
what this is a router okay so this is a
micro ATX router powered by mono wall
but mono wall was discontinued the the
mainboard and this is just a 32-bit
mainboard so it's not anything that you
can really do anything else with these
days and it's not powerful it's just
it's meant to be a router right so but
it is a micro ATX case and there's a
really really interesting thing about
this I'm just gonna get in here Henry
because I've got my screwdriver I want
to get the cover off of here for you and
show you what is really intriguing me
about this because mmm the power is the
main thing with the the so pine cluster
board okay how am I going to power it
tell me that these screw holes for this
to not form fact or two in there this is
a micro ATX mainboard so this fits the
form back it will actually fit in there
perfectly okay so it's built to fit a
micro ATX case but how are you going to
power it well you'd have to have a big
like an ATX power supply or a micro ATX
STX power supply something like that
this is an older system yep but what I
love about this Henry it takes these two
cables mm-hmm from a power adapter which
I have here somewhere you guys can see
it I can't reach it
it has a 5 volt power supply that is six
point seven amps
well what what okay six point seven six
point six seven amps giving 12 volts as
a matter of fact now what it does is it
takes that power from that power supply
goes through the down stepper to five
volts okay and it has an ATX kind of
connector on it oh my goodness so I'm
gonna pull this main board out of here
this whole router main board I'm gonna
put the micro ATX so pine cluster board
in there notice they are exactly the
same form factor yep right and now this
one little tiny computer network is
seven quad core computers okay with two
gigs of ram each each one running Debian
or some other server OS whatever I want
oh my goodness so cool minding so now
all you need though is like a backplane
that has the USB hookups so that you can
just only if you need USB Jeff if fair
enough I could connect the X I could
connect the fate of the front panel USB
to these USB ports yep so if I plug in a
USB it could go into one of these so
pine modules if I wanted to yep and I
might do that maybe have one of them
that's that uses that for something
maybe storage or something like that but
realistically I'm gonna use the gigabit
yeah connectivity yeah for storage I'm
gonna use the gigabit or I scuzzy or
something like that or even an SFTP or
sshfs would work for me as well
CIFS would work fine like samba that's
so awesome
there you go folks that's gonna go in
there Henry so I've got to order more so
pine modules am I gonna fill that thing
to the brim yeah I'm gonna put some
Kingston SD cards in there and we're
gonna see what we can come up with it's
gonna be so I'm looking forward to the
day where something like that becomes
the new broadcast server you know
you need the GPU that's all you really
got a good GPU for broadcasting however
what this could one of those so pine
modules could do is be a recipient for
nimble streamer so the broadcast server
could receive could be sending the
broadcast to that and then that could
stream it to nimble streamer and
rebroadcast it it could also then daisy
chain to the next so pine board and take
a picture every 10 seconds of the video
stream live to create snapshots for us
so that we have some thumbnails to work
with so they're like there's so much you
can do then you could use one of those
USB ports to plug in a webcam and that
can be a backstage pass camera that
could be taking a picture every 10
seconds or it could be streaming live
video to YouTube it can do that so know
it's broadcast broadcast server know
you're limiting it just so much with it
because it's just a whole bunch of
little service is exciting inside of an
old mono wall yeah it's funny as you're
going through this this reminds me of
way back oh gosh I want to say 15 years
ago yeah remember when you were starting
to work on building a computer into a
desk yeah this totally reminds me that's
like yanking something that it wasn't
intended for like I got repurpose this
yeah back in the day yeah an old desk
with the with the drawer handle I cut
out the drawer handle and put an optical
drive in there and then the motherboard
was in the drawer itself sack before
SBC's were even thought of yeah and it
was just a little ATX computer in a
drawer but this is gonna be even better
Jeff oh that's awesome
have you have you played with those yet
I want to hear from you I want to get
some ideas hey I mentioned some of the
things that I might do with it what
would you like to see us do with it I've
got some GPIO connectivity am I gonna
connect some things to that and see if
we can another idea I had was to write
an app for your phone and so that when
you connect to the Wi-Fi and you so you
get to the studio and what do you
normally do you text me yeah and say I'm
here unlock the doors right yep so think
about this one of those so pine modules
running an Apache server
with a connected app that only works on
our Wi-Fi as soon as you come into the
Wi-Fi it brings up a thing that allows
you to push a button that turns on a
light that tells me that you're here
basically like a silent doorbell it's a
smart office right that would be an easy
just a relay coming off the GPIO being
triggered by a GPIO command on the
Apache server and a little app that lets
you ring the virtual doorbell but only
when you're connected to our Wi-Fi so
just when you get to the studio so that
when you idea it's read like on the
Orville game can't wait to try we do
have to head over to the newsroom Jeff
if you're set you are covering for sash
of this well speaking of covering
perception let's make sure that let's
use the right the right buttons there
that's you're not on the Sascha button
you're on the F button okay here are the
stories were covering go and help if my
keyboard was on here the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 dot
TV newsroom personal data belonging to
nearly all adults in Bulgaria has been
stolen in a massive cyber attack on the
country's tax agency Microsoft's future
in Germany is in question again as the
German state of Hesse a declared the use
of office 365 to be illegal within its
schools some early adopters of the
raspberry pi 4 released on 24th of June
are running into heat issues especially
with the official pi/4 case making no
provision for heatsink or fan and the
Facebook app to keep kids from talking
to strangers online fails it's one job
these stories are coming right up don't
this is the category
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories dislike Linux bias I'm Jeff
lesson and here are the top stories
we're following it this week personal
data belonging to nearly all adults in
Bulgaria has been stolen in a massive
cyber attack on the country's tax agency
among the stolen data were names
addresses and even some details of
personal income cybersecurity researcher
Veselin bond chef assistant professor at
the Bulgarian Academy of Science
reiterates it is safe to say that the
personal data of practically the whole
Bulgarian adult population has been
compromised the hack occurred in June
but an email purportedly from one of the
culprits was sent to the Bulgarian media
on Monday it mocked the government's
cyber security standards as a parody the
email also contained an offer of access
to the stolen data and said the trove
contained information on more than 5
million people as well as businesses
Bulgarian police have said that while
they have arrested and charged a 20 year
old man on suspicion of involvement in
the attack they are examining the
possibility that others were involved
the tax agency now faces a fine of up to
20 million euros wow that's a crazy
story that is like could you imagine if
oh hey
all of America your information has gone
on like how that even work because if
you have to go over like even here in
Canada your sin number your address
everything but what about Equifax okay
but still that's not that's very and
these are like when it comes to the tax
company
yeah I'll say the tax company but the
tax agency you kind of expect that your
data is safe you would think you'd hope
so and you don't you don't
really you're not opting into them
storing your data right so that you you
put a certain trust in your government
to keep your data safe yeah that's
really scary well yeah but I mean it
also makes you wonder ok what other
areas of the government are vulnerable
to this kind of attack like was it just
the tax agency was there something more
like is there other areas like who knows
and the fact that
virtually every adult had their
information stolen dan like well even
just thinking that it's probably not
even encrypted right if it's just in
plain text cuz yeah if they can't tell
you yes what we have then is even
locally so it's not even it's not even
obfuscated I know they don't have
anything yeah that's true too and and
does that come down to government
budgeting and funding I know I you know
I've I don't work with government too
much but I do work sometimes with
government agencies that I often hear
that there's just not the budget for
what is being recommended yeah and if
that's the case so if I say okay you
really have to do this because
ransomware is a real thing and it's
growing and our DP brute force attacks
are a real thing and growing and you're
susceptible to this so you need to lock
this down you need to do this yeah oh we
don't have the funds for that that's a
big concern yes and companies need to be
concerned about this too we need to be
very diligent with our cyber security
and I've spoken with cyber security
professionals who have said like if
you're not annually reassessing your
security measures then you're falling
behind I think you think it really is
not enough I mean it's got to be a
constant thing for the IT department
sure and and you know the communication
between the IT department and the
c-suite but the actual implementation of
new technologies to monitor and control
the flow of data in your network has to
be an annual thing and how many
companies buy their computers and have
them installed and they are up and
running so until they start crashing we
don't need to do anything that's a scary
place to be in these days no I mean
aside from that just kind of thinking
about the information that's been you
know stolen the fact that it's in every
adult in Bulgaria is there a security
issue to this like you know from what
perspective the fact that their
addresses are now Noah known I mean like
you think of high-ranking government
officials that myself their address is
unlisted mmm-hmm
for privacy reasons whatever right now
their information is all like oh I see
that I have to pack up that's possible
move like a business always yes that's
right it did say business always like
there's some not just digital security
but potential physical security sure to
this as well for direct attack but also
social engineering attacks mm-hmm you
know if you get a phone call where
somebody knows this much about you and
you're not clued into the fact that this
is like phishing scam or a spear
phishing exactly then you might provide
more information yeah sorry
not good and and social engineering
attacks have gotten so smart guys very
much so so smart and planned
meticulously there's two types of social
engineering attacks that I see these
days one is untargeted and one is
targeted untargeted means you've got a
Windows XP machine sitting on your
network and they found it because
they've got BOTS that look for those
exploits and so they've no students with
$20,000,000 really clicked on it yeah
you clicked on it now there's targeted
on the other hand where they find out
about your business they find out about
this is what happens to government this
is what happens to some businesses they
find out about who works for you and
what what information they need who your
vendors are who your customers are and
once they've accumulated that knowledge
yeah then the attack begins yep so that
whether they so they can contact you as
one of your vendors they can spoof the
phone number that comes up on the phone
using a voice over IP service and then
you think oh this is this is my supplier
calling and they're telling me to send
them a check for X number of dollars
because the last check didn't arrive
right actually interesting enough I had
a phone scam phone call about a website
that I owned yeah but because it logs
all the information online because I got
a anonymous as far as the the data that
goes online for the Whois yes
somehow they connected the website to me
and I got a phone call and as oh it's so
and so from the provider yeah you know
found an issue we need you to reset your
password I'm gonna send you a link I'm
like council yeah I can happen no I'll
visit the panel myself I'll check the
and all and and make sure you've got two
factor authentication I was impressed
like yeah sounded legit I'm going nope I
don't think so mm-hmm
so it's all I'm gonna get worse that's
true so we have to remain diligent we
have to become diligent we got to be
smart to say okay hey that Bank email
you know what I'm just gonna actually
ignore it but I'm gonna either call my
bank that's right by the number that I
know is the bank not the one that they
show in the email or walk in there are
people here I thought it was just ATMs
Wow no there's actual people who can
answer your questions and say nope that
transaction never occurred you know so
be diligent folks okay Microsoft's
future in Germany is in question again
as the German state of Hesse declared
the use of office 365 to be illegal
within its schools si is one of 16
federal states of Germany with a
population of roughly 6 million around
14% of the entire population of Germany
although the press release specifically
targets office 365 it notes that
competing cloud Suites also do not
satisfy German privacy regulations for
use in schools the commissure
Commissioner of data protection and
Freedom of Information hbd I said what
is true for Microsoft is also true for
the Google and Apple cloud solutions the
cloud solutions of these providers have
so far not being transparent and
comprehensively set out therefore it is
also true that the schools for the
school's the privacy complaint use is
currently not possible this isn't the
first time that part of Germany has
publicly broken up with Microsoft Office
some German cities including Munich and
Freiburg famously ditched Microsoft
Office applications in favor of
OpenOffice in the early 2000s those
open-source adoption programs have had a
notoriously rough ride plagued with
interoperable interoperability issues
just because one town changes its office
applications doesn't mean its
neighboring towns parent state or even
its own citizens have the municipalities
have also been targeted heavily for
with lobbying by Microsoft itself up to
and including Steve Ballmer than
Microsoft's CEO interrupting a ski
vacation to fly to Munich to try to cut
a pro Microsoft deal in person however
the early 2000s attempts to break free
of Microsoft was a matter of choice this
time around though the Commissioner
isn't just saying that schools would
prefer not to use Microsoft he's stating
that their use of office 365 is outright
illegal in addition to the physical
geography of the cloud the HB di is
unhappy about telemetry in both office
365 and Windows 10 itself neither can be
disabled by end users or organizations
and the content of both remains
undisclosed by Microsoft despite
repeated inquiries it appears that the
HPD I would rather not ditch office
outright preferring to pressure
Microsoft into compliance with German
law the office lays out the conditions
under which schools could continue to
use office 365 it requires that all
possible access to user data by third
parties be curtailed and that the
contents of Windows 10 and office 365
telemetry be revealed in full until then
HPD I says schools can use other tools
such as on-premise licenses on local
systems ok that's interesting that in
all of that they want all the
information that is in the cloud to be
accessible outside of Microsoft is there
these controlled by them oh right but
like a like as far as oh this is kind of
our back-end you're a bright airy nature
of HACC and yeah but also the being
proprietary is the infrastructure in
place to simply take it and make it an
on-premise solution yeah maybe that's
not a solution that said I mean looking
back at the attempt to switch to
OpenOffice back 19 years ago basically
now it's a lot more possible oh thanks
Mike it's widely more supported oh yeah
and then the compatibility is no longer
an issue but these days I mean there's
so many different options but a lot of
them are cloud based a lot of the
options like Google Google Drive Google
Docs yeah is a cloud based solution so
that doesn't solve it but it shows that
the technology can be placed you
decentralized like not on the computer
in a server so can we not in deploy
something on a server that would work
and Microsoft doesn't have that right
that I'm aware of
mmm so far no yeah they're gonna have to
if they want it but still it's an
interesting one I mean the fact that
you've got this service that's provided
by Microsoft Google Apple yeah and all
it takes is a piece of legislation ago
it's not good enough mm-hmm so is the
company forced to comply with laws or
they gonna say all right too bad so sad
like we're gonna like I'm a bit of an
eye opener though isn't it like doesn't
it make you say oh well one this is good
that a government is saying okay this is
a privacy issue that our citizens have
no control over where this data is
stored or who has access to it yeah you
let alone having access to it themselves
but also it just like it just wakes me
up as a as a software developer as well
okay well centralization to proprietary
platforms is probably not a good
business model these days well
especially you know they if you're
selling software yeah exactly but I mean
like you look at the the EU privacy laws
really tough imagine if they went a
little bit further and suddenly all of
that from Microsoft Apple yeah Google
was no longer valid and Europe is now
Rauf market example government Sam Raimi
this raised firewall of Germany yeah
think about this though like now okay
where does it end right like there's a
whole other side of this what about
antivirus anti-malware where did the
definitions come from that's true right
they come from like the the the very
earliest antivirus got them through an
online service so that it was like an
early cloud yeah when a new virus is
discovered the virus the virus research
team creates the definitions and your
computer downloads those yeah from the
cloud and we'll call it the cloud that
it didn't exist back then there was no
they didn't have a name for it was just
the antivirus definition servers yeah
right dude we cut that off yeah like
maybe it's not the same thing because
there's the locate where these are our
documents documents have private
confidential information but then the
flip side is that of that is well when a
virus is detected it gets sent to the
analysis server right mm-hmm which you
can opt out of well that is true
yeah there's that guards Persky and a
lot of trouble in the US she's forgot
about that one huh okay but think okay
so here's the interesting thing about
this story it's about the school boards
are saying sorry it's not good enough
for schools mm-hmm what is that CIBC
aspect up right what does that say about
the rest of the government like you know
if someone's Turner I go is your
military information stored on the the
Guru god yes yes it is thank so it's not
good enough for school but you trust
like it's you know could this open the
door for the entire government to go
yeah sorry hands off and Microsoft is
doing it where they're progressively
getting more and more in the cloud like
they're so their products are no longer
necessarily even installed in your
computer you don't really realize that's
right yeah it's an app it's connected to
the cloud much like a Chromebook
connects to the Google stats interesting
yeah things are changing and laws have
to change as well oh sure
all right some early adopters of the
raspberry pi 4 released on the 24th of
June are running into heat issues
especially with the official PI 4 case
making no provision for a heatsink or
fan the Raspberry Pi 4 has a 1.5
gigahertz quad-core 64-bit ARM Cortex a
72 CPU say that 5 times real fast for
approximately three times performance of
the previous model the inevitability
generates more heat the PI does not have
a heatsink but users what the company
calls heat spreading technology to use
the entire board as kind of a heatsink
this worked ok on the PI 3 but the
official FAQ for PI 4 notes that under a
continuously heavy process a workload
the model for B is more likely to
throttle than a model 3 b+ you can add a
heatsink if you wish and this may
prevent thermal throttling by keeping
the chips
below the throttling temperature when
the pi/4 heats up beyond 80 degrees
Celsius that's 175 Fahrenheit
the CPU is throttled to reduce the
temperature and a half full read
thermometer appears on the display if
one is connected
sorry that's if one is connected if the
temperature goes up beyond 85 the GPU
which now supports dual monitors and 4k
resolution will be throttled as well
it's no surprise that the pi/4 gets
hotter than its predecessor it is marked
as a viable general-purpose PC after all
there is an issue though if it
frequently overheats in normal use users
are not getting full performance
longevity of the components may also be
affected software engineer Martin Rowan
has looked at in detail at the pi/4
temperatures and concluded that it is
too hot to use enclosed one of his
component complaints is that the
official case remains a fanless design
sadly this doesn't work out well with
the increased thermal load according to
his measurements compared to the pi3 the
new raspberry pi 4 is running 80% hotter
and more than a hundred percent hotter
when the new four case display support
is enabled a long thread on the
Raspberry Pi forum shows that
temperature issues are widespread
casting doubt on the design to supply
the PI 4 without taking any extra steps
to improve heat dissipation the PI 4 is
still great value of course but adding a
heatsink as a or fan looks to be a
sensible idea even for unn unn demanding
applications heat sinks are neat and
silent solution but fans appear to be
most effective why would they test it
this over the MacBook Pro all over again
getting too hot so you put it in your
fridge and then it's fine in Siberia
there was no issue we tested it in
northern Canada but I'm surprised that
this wouldn't have been noticed by the
designers yeah in the kind of QA or
quality control section hmm yeah there
were a few things that slip through the
cracks though weren't there Jeff yeah
just a few no what was it that boy was
too
yes was it with the pi/4 mmm when he was
here two weeks it wasn't there something
on the pi/4 that was did we cover in the
news there was a component that they
under oh the the USBC was Miss Moore
yeah that's what that's right yeah it
was yeah yeah there's a few things that
kind of messed up on yep which is too
bad I was hoping you guys would carry
that one as I was dealing with this guy
I'm also the producer so I'm with him I
was like oh do we have to restart Wow
what else have you got for us Jeff all
right the Facebook app to keep kids from
talking to strangers online fails at its
one job as it turns out letting the
company with tons of privacy scandals
run a messaging service for children
might have been a bad idea now there are
multiple reports that a pitfall in the
design of Facebook's messenger kids app
lets children talk to unauthorized users
in group chat aka exactly what the app
was built not to do the app works like
this once a parent has approved to
contact children as young as six are
free to chat with that person through
video Tech's silly gifts etc now that
works if the conversations only one on
one but messenger kids allows for group
chats and that's where the issue of
permissions gets tricky thanks to a bug
in the app a kid could be invited to a
group chat by a friend authorized to do
so but the users therein required no
such authorization messenger kids didn't
screen whether everyone in the chat was
pre-approved to talk to another
resulting in thousands of children
talking to strangers on the internet
through an app that was designed to stop
that from happening the company began
alerting users and quietly closing such
group chats over the past week Facebook
representatives further explained we
recently notified some parents of
messenger kids accounts users about a
technical area err error that was
affecting a small number of group chats
we turned off the affected chats and
provided parents with additional
resources on messenger kids and online
safety
such an important and as obsessively
obvious loophole has been in messenger
kids is anyone's guess but the
controversy that has surrounded the app
since its inception
ever since Facebook launched the service
back in 2017 many children health care
child health care advocates have loudly
voiced of disapproval for it nearly 100
of them signed a letter asking Facebook
CEO Mark Zuckerberg to delete the app
over concerns that an increased screen
time that's been shown to cause stress
negative body images and sleep
deprivation according to multiple
studies and letter sites Facebook later
addressed some of these concerns by
adding a sleep mode so parents could
control how much time their children
spent on the app oh my goodness Wow I'm
gonna tell you a really stupid scenario
to put this into context I'm gonna make
an anti-virus product oh my antivirus
product makes it possible for viruses to
install themselves on your computer yep
okay so that's a ridiculous scenario
right yes actually happened silence
right yeah that was this week too but
here we are with Facebook we're gonna
create an app that is supposed to MIT
well is this is going to make it so that
your kids can only speak to people that
you as the parent have authorized them
to speak with oh but actually it allows
anyone to join a group chat from
anywhere yeah and they can then interact
with your children even though you
didn't approve that I mean when Facebook
first came out with this yeah I was not
a fan I'm still not a fan there's no way
I'm letting my kids use an app like this
first off I mean I think what minimum
age for Facebook is 13 yeah but not the
kids version well no I understand but
even at 13 there's no way I'm giving my
kids an access to an account okay
because I don't you know trust that they
are mature enough to handle the impacts
of something like Facebook and mass
social media but to get kids ingrained
to this at a young age of six and then
realize oops we screwed up they're no
longer actually protected yeah yeah
oh yeah we've been collecting your tax
data which we just gave to all the
hackers just this has been quite a week
hasn't it still trust Facebook that's
that's the even better question well
that's that's the interesting thing I
mean on on the heels of them getting was
that a five billion dollar fine plus a
hundred thousand for the Cambridge
analytic scandal sent only got fine a
hundred thousand
oh I have that under my fingernail
why do we keep allowing Facebook to go
here let me soak up all your information
oh by the way your kid yeah that's like
big their big business Jeff I just
alright let's talk about crypto thank
you
Bitcoin has gained huge earnings this
week if you bought a Bitcoin for nine
thousand seven hundred ninety two
dollars last week well you made $12 yeah
Facebook Libre is still not trading
litecoin is up to ninety four dollars
and 86 cents per coin these are the USD
Fiat values as of Wednesday Jan July
24th 2019 aetherium is at two hundred
seventeen dollars and fifty two cents
mineiro at eighty dollars and 53 cents
gaining two dollars and ninety four
cents very small gains this week torque
is up just a fraction of a ten
thousandth of a cent at point eight
point nine seven and it's turtle coin
trailing behind slowly but steadily
at zero point eight eight ten thousandth
of a cent per coin so you probably have
lots of them so one day put them all
together to the moon yet to the moon to
the moon any Lambo do remember though
that cryptocurrency is market that never
closes and it's always volatile so be
very careful when you trade and if
you're going to make sure that whatever
you invest is as much as you can lose
take that approach and then you're safe
sure
exactly all right big thanks to Roy W
Nash in our community of yours for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Jeff Weston I'm Rob sasha pregnant right
I was gonna say I thought you'd you
changed just the bald nerd I'm still
Henry I got a haircut yeah it's good
looks good looking clean looking clean
it's the summer do yes we gotta take a
really quick break everybody stick
around got a box that was sent to us
they said they said if you open this box
on the air we will be very happy and we
will let you keep the contents of the
box it's not it's not a million dollars
I have a remote control and we do have
some bubble wrap ooh look at that
Oh bubble wrap and we have a submersible
LED light what takes three Triple A
batteries submersible submersible so
this thing is waterproof Jeff that makes
it perfect for the bath the hot tub the
swimming pool even if you want to put it
in like a baws and make it light up like
this we'll about to shower it's like I
gotta throw the light in here you could
you know is like in the bath ever if you
want to like read in the bathroom I
don't know but certainly the hot tub or
something okay you don't you don't have
to submerge it Jeff okay and I'm not
mentioning the fish tank because I don't
know if it's food safe yes and we don't
want to kill your fish not that this
will but I think you should research at
first you don't put things in the fish
tank that are not approved for
fish water okay but you don't have to
put it in water I mean this could go on
your shelf and light things up you could
like maybe table hang it maybe there's
like a you've got a china cabinet that
you don't well like an antique china
cabinet you're not gonna drill holes in
it for LED lighting because it's an
antique right so something like this a
little bit of tape and like stick it up
there and you can just like turn it on
with this remote control presumably okay
sorry and you said it takes two three
Triple A batteries three Triple A
batteries Jeff it is not a smart device
there's no app involved there's no
remote no electronic oh I almost said it
canceled canceled there's no
connectivity to your smart home devices
it's literally just a remote control and
the LED there's 10 LEDs in here these
are all all 10 of them are RGB so that
means you can set the color yourself
okay I can have it cycle through and of
course I thought the question that
everyone has burning in the last how
long are the battery's gonna last like
if I forget to turn this off what's
gonna happen so did I mention that this
box is a little bit too big for this
because it comes with two Jeff however
this one has been powered on for more
than 24 hours and it's still going and
it's still going and working a treat so
there you go that's just how much
battery life because I don't I'm not
that fancy with something like this Jeff
I mean hey it works it's still running
it's still going there you go honestly
like if you're a cosplayer and you're
looking for something simple for like
Ironman it's like oh okay be a Cylon or
Terminator or something okay so I got
green I got blue aqua purple hit that
light switch over there Jeff and see
really so much oh okay so I can actually
yeah there you go so the the remote
works just fine it does come with two
remotes two devices powered on are they
separate signals you know they're the
sit so you can point this remote at that
one and then that one
whatever you want to do and then you can
do like oh it's got a strobe feature
what yeah that's what it says the button
says strobe what does it do are you
covering the sensor now it doesn't seem
to do wait it doesn't seem to strobe
what's this one you cannot so-called
flash you can replace your camera flash
this one's called fade oh and there's
one called smooth so I not seeing a
difference yeah you have to hold the
button hmm maybe maybe those about flash
works well what about this one hmm
I can change the color clearly I have
not read the manual yet alert yeah but I
like it
one of the things that I want to do is
I've got an i-9 oh yeah that's the
manual I have a nine don't even worry
about it
it's a nine I've got an i-9 9900 kay you
can turn the light back on and with that
processor it comes with a really cool
chassis case right the octagonal thing
so I want to put this inside with a
single board computer make it light up
really neat right put it in here no I'll
just probably like do like a blue glow
nice and just have that thing like just
glowing
hey so hey these are pretty neat and
they're cheap they're affordable they're
as I said waterproof and this one again
has been powered on for more than 24
hours
still yeah and it's still going looks
great cap 5 TV / LED turn it off or well
there's a button on the remote oh okay
just turned off yeah you could probably
turn it like take out the batteries if
you wanted to although then you'd have
to take it out of the water if it was in
the water yeah sure now on I'm not gonna
do that I would just turn it off from
the remote control but we know that it
will power itself for at least why four
hours yes LEDs don't use a lot of juice
folks so hey if I left it on overnight
it's not gonna damn it or yeah or kill
the batteries so cat five dot TV / LED
to check those out good times
yes like now I got LEDs Alessa world
there's your slogan folks
hey don't forget we are on twitter at
category 5 TV also I personally am on
Twitter are you on Twitter are you on
Twitter just me I'm on the twe Hat
Robbie Ferguson over here I'll follow
back these guys though I won't follow
back yeah you guys are so active in
social media this is what I deal with
folks because I have reasons why I have
to run all the social media channels all
the media somebody said to me why hasn't
Linux tech showed up combin updated
lately
and I'm like well it's all me I had all
her nerve entrapment I had to take a
break so it's getting caught up speaking
of go check out Linux tech show calm
you'll be able to see some of those
videos which some of them are dating
back as far as May because that's when
my ulnar nerve entrapment hit and so I'm
getting caught up now and we're getting
some really hot videos going going out
there so check it out also you can find
our website category 5 TV where
everything kind of comes together if
you're not sure how to subscribe jump
down to the very bottom of the page
you'll see a button that says subscribe
and that will take you to like our RSS
feeds and everything else so thanks for
being here everybody thanks YouTube for
being here thanks for having see ya
