[Music]
hi and thanks for tuning in to the
endpoint security dot CA podcast from
positive e solutions I'm Robbie Ferguson
and throughout the course of this
podcast combined with our blog we want
to provide you with a free resource to
be able to educate yourself and your
staff about the cybersecurity issues
that are affecting you in your company
in 2019 over the years the relationship
between IT cybersecurity and the
executive C suite has changed but as the
perpetual slate of data breaches and
hacking incidents shows there's still a
long way to go before they find
themselves truly on the same page senior
executives naturally have a lot on their
plate and IT has typically been one of
the many silos in an organization that
supports specific areas of a company's
existence in their case it has
everything to do with data so is it
really necessary for the CEO of an
organization to become hands on with the
concerns of IT Jim Chalmers channel
chief at he SEC Canada believes so in a
recent email correspondence with Jim he
shared that while generally in the past
cybersecurity was seen by the executives
as a technology issue
thanks to legislation around mandatory
disclosure of breaches and the media
exposure of cybersecurity issues it now
goes far beyond technology he pointed
out that IT issues now have extended PR
and brand implications which are
directly related to stock value consumer
confidence and legal liability this
means that cybersecurity is really a
corporate issue to expand upon this it's
my pleasure to infact welcome Jim to our
virtual space how are you Jim I'm good
Robby thanks for having me on today I
want to get right into it at first of
all in your opinion how have members of
a company's executive leadership changed
in terms of their understanding of
cybersecurity in general I mean are they
more in touch beyond simply knowing that
it's important it's a great question I
think they've had to become more aware
I mean years past the security team was
just a subset of a group of guys working
three floors down a nighty but as we've
seen as you mentioned the legislation
come come to pass and as you've seen
more cybersecurity in the news you can't
talk about that what they're talking
about the the issues of the u.s. with
Russia hacking the DNC etc right um
CEOs have had to become extremely aware
as you said it's no longer just a
technology issue it's a business issue
no we've seen companies that have been
completely decimated because of a hack
not just a few days being down but
companies that have never recovered so
CEOs have had to be more involved in the
security piece they've had to you know
kind of invite the security or the CSO
from the kids table to the boardroom
table to join the big table it has to
get a conversation in any business
aspect going forward so we've seen CSOs
attend events where we vote had trouble
getting Co sauce to come out right but
they're coming out in droves now no
great Jim I've got lots of questions for
you but for the sake of our listeners a
quick bit of history would probably help
to put things into context so looking at
last year's Marriott breach it was one
of the most widespread so far with 500
million accounts affected and some
experts have been pointing to
unauthorized access to a database that
was tied to customer reservations
stretching from 2014 all the way through
to September 10 2018 and it's a problem
that was compounded by the fact that
Starwood was being acquired by Marriott
at the time and Starwood's voluntary
disclosure of the breach standed to get
caught up in the transfer of assets so
this points to a clash of worlds the
executive strategy cybersecurity
corporate mergers Jim is it enough for
senior executives to leave the details
to departmental managers or should they
themselves and their executive knowledge
of cybersecurity should that be more
thorough absolutely I think that
Marriott merger acquisition is a perfect
right it's no longer enough to look at
you know do the brains come together
properly is that the stock value okay
you know the the the c-level executives
have to have a knowledge of
cybersecurity because it it's taking on
a whole new a whole new life right look
at mergers and acquisitions now they
have to look at the security posture of
the other company as well right now I
can't leave that to some like I said
somebody three levels down they have to
it's now a factor in kind of every
business decision do we acquire that
company we can we take on their risk
right and you know how do we how are we
going to be viewed if we have to
disclose this breach from a company that
we purchased two years ago Wow that's
the kind of thing it has to happen yeah
it's like the male star which one was a
fantastic example right I don't think
Mary it actually knew that I don't get
the gun I don't think they look that
deep into the security posture of the
Starwood's Hormel chain before they
purchased it and they're gonna pay that
price so that wising up executives to
realize that okay they're this just like
when we're making this big purchase we
need to look at the the past debts of
these companies now are we looking are
we looking at cyber security as you know
to that extent of you know we're
auditing the company before we before we
make the purchase yeah I mean the audit
now goes deeper than just stock value or
you know like do the two I said that the
brands come together not even their
security posture they currently have did
they have a breach two three years ago
did they have to disclose that yeah
normally they're looking at the PR piece
PR is no longer do you know where the
sheets clean or did I get a good
reservation it is was my information
shared online did I get that letter from
the company saying that you might have
been breached that your information that
is all part and parcel of these murders
and acquisitions and everyday business
for the c-level executives now if they
don't they're going to be in trouble
going forward it's what it boils down to
sure so as company executives now
looking to the future like we've got to
be very very focused on the
cybersecurity issue for the future yeah
exactly I mean I don't think it's enough
to even have a CIO I think you need to
have a seat
so you need to have a c-level security
offers and in any company of any
significance at this point it if not
they need to outsource some of that to a
company that does right there's no
longer enough to call this a technology
issue it's a business issue it makes
such a difference to the IT department
as well who maybe has not been entirely
focused on the cybersecurity threats
because hey we're all busy right we've
got computers to fix and printers that
aren't working and networks that need
building and everything else you talk to
any IT guy you know works in a large
corporation and they're always asked to
do more with less right yeah you always
see me that comes all the time to like
do more with less time I'm going to take
some of your time right but then it's
always interesting I was gonna say funny
but it's certainly not funny it's always
interesting when you see what happens
after a company's been breached all of a
sudden their budget for security
skyrockets the IT department of a sudden
has more budget and more time and and
and and what I think needs to happen and
what we're seeing more and more now is
c-level executives are actually trying
to get ahead of that yeah and they have
to write you can pay now or you can pay
significantly more later you can pay now
with budget and time and resources or
you can pay later with budget time
resources and damage to your brand
damage your customers damage to the
company it's always the case it's it's
it's better to pay out to be proactive
than to have to pay out to be reactive
absolutely it's still an interesting
conversation because you know you would
expect with all of the start with
security breaches and just the awareness
that you see more and more executives
going to that it's still a very much a
slow burn yeah Jim since it might be
unfair to place all the blame on
executives what should cyber security
specialists themselves do - or what can
we do to be well - to help me as a
cybersecurity person to understand how I
can influence and even manage up to the
executives because like this is the
problem the whole silo mentality of the
past has
let us - you know we're we're basically
separated or segregated from the various
departments so you know I start to
wonder about that silo mentality is that
a good thing at this point or is this
something that needs to be changed well
first off you know changing the
conversation he's talking with
cybersecurity specialist you know we
kind of live and breathe this stuff so
we have our own kind of a binocular that
we use etc now we have to change the
conversation from technology products
even solutions to talking about risk
c-level executives they they don't
necessarily care about the technology
that's used or even talk in terms of
cybersecurity they talk about mitigating
risk now the reality is everybody's
going to be breached at some point it
depends how damaging it is or how deep
people get on the network so they need
to be able to go to the board when it
happens and say we took the right steps
to at least mitigate that risk and I
don't think if cyber security
specialists you know the ones that do
make that change talking about
cybersecurity they're talking about risk
is the one to do they'll be way ahead of
the game but as far as the silo
mentality I mean its cybersecurity cuts
across all departments of any company
right from the receptionist to the IT
guy to the CEO
you know most breaches aren't malicious
they are some employee that clicked on
the wrong thing
right and that could start at the
receptionist so the silo mentality that
that cybersecurity is a a data issue or
an IT issue or nej the customer service
issue has to go away I mean you have to
train everybody as part of an onboarding
process the receptionist the new
customer service rep the new c-level
executive cyber security awareness it's
tough because like how do you train your
IT department to you because it's gonna
fall on the IT department expectedly
this is how you know that silo mentality
has gone is that okay well we're this is
the IT departments responsibility to
educate the staff but not every IT
person is a teacher or you know is is
able to to take that information that
knowledge and translate it down to a
different level that is not
IT centric right I think that's where
that you know breaking down the style of
mentality really has to take place the
IT department in this case has to work
with probably either the HR department
or a Learning and Development Department
to take the technology buzzwords out of
the equation right there's a big talk
about gamification right now right if
you can give somebody a PowerPoint very
dry talk about all the technology how to
be cybersecurity aware and it's just not
going to have any impact but if you
could I don't see dumb it down but if
you could make it more fun and take out
the buzzwords and make it more relatable
because again most of these things
aren't people aren't cyber criminals
attacking a network in having the
technology to breach it it's attacking
an individual on a human level and
having them click on the wrong things if
you can take your cyber security
training and humanize it or gamify it
you're gonna have much better results so
the IT departments got to work with
again HR and probably the learning and
management teams yeah it's making me
think of just recently I heard of a
customer who was who it was in the
accounting department and had received
an invoice and that invoice was low and
behold ransomware and infiltrated their
network now luckily they had good
backups and that was the situation they
were able to recover but it could be
that simple that the accountant receives
an invoice and opens it I mean I've
worked I've worked in this industry for
a long time and I've I see static rooms
where the company has done a phishing
test yeah
and in 10 individuals new room I work in
the cyber security and you can guarantee
three of them are gonna click on it it's
just the nature of the beast right now
you know you get an email that says hey
there's a problem with your expenses you
panic you just don't realize that
there's no signature attached that's how
easy it is yeah and statistically as you
say like if three and ten cybersecurity
minded people because there's a reason
that these kinds of threats have been
labeled as social engineering because
these are these are folks who understand
in in a lot of cases who understand the
the mentalities and
you know how to create a reactionary a
reaction from the recipient and if only
three and ten people fall for it well
that's 30% that they've been able to
infiltrate presumably and that's the
challenge of cybersecurity in general
you know as cybersecurity specialists we
have to be right 100% of the time
yeah even if the cybersecurity criminals
are right 1% of the time they still win
sure so you mentioned you know working
with the IT department in HR and
educating in a fun way are there
resources Jim that we can tie into or
tap into to be able to arm the the IT
department with the the necessary you
like whether it be powerpoints or you
know ideas or thoughts starters what
what can we do yeah I mean I'll just
mention that ESET has an online free
training that we offer it's kind of
cyber security 101 there's there is a
certificate at the end all right so
obviously if you'd like to promote that
we think everybody should take it but in
this it there's there's if you just
search LinkedIn if you actually go to
your your trusted advisors you just need
to come up with something cybersecurity
planning 101 needs to be part of the
onboarding program for every single new
employee good advice I'm going to put a
link for that in in the notes below so
if you're watching this online make sure
you check that out it's a free resource
from ESET and we're gonna provide that
to you and your staff Jim I mentioned
the Marriott breach but from your
perspective both personally and with
your work at ESET are there any other
standouts as far as cybersecurity
attacks that match or even exceed that
magnitude so III mentioned it before and
I don't think when we study
cybersecurity down the road I don't
think you can avoid not talking about
the Ashley Madison which I think that's
probably the most significant breach in
the last 10 years you know whether you
agree or disagree with the morality or
ethics of that business right that was a
privately held company that had 25
gigabits of data stolen and pushed out
on the internet and it devastated that
company again somewhere in the the
ethical argument that piece got lost and
the other piece that happened is it had
truly a personal impact on individuals
again the the the ethical morality piece
has to be put aside
there was individuals that committed
suicide because their information was
further than the internet and you know
regard even on a personal of an a
business level you know a lot of people
kind of thought that company got what
they deserve because of what they were
doing it was still a criminal act and it
raised the question of hacktivism which
I don't think really a lot of people
talked about very much right was that an
ethical hack well you know recently you
know we'll talk about current links in
the news there's a lot of people talking
about the the Muller report in the US
and whether somebody should hack the
Justice Department and get that and you
see it is that hype ism or is it a
criminal act and I think Ashley Madison
is a perfect example of how those two
things got mixed together and can you
whether regardless of what the company
does if it's a they're breached and
personal data stolen it's a criminal act
I think will study Ashley Madison for
years because if it created you know
activism mentality you know is it a good
hack you know they'd have personal
implications don't people that's what I
think it's gonna go down in history you
know absolutely makes sense I haven't
really given it much thought but to
think that you know our mentality as
individuals who are not involved in that
hack is like oh well they like you say
they got what was coming to them but to
break it down to the individuals who
were affected by that and the company
itself it's like where where is that
line in cybersecurity this because you
know the next obvious step is and we've
actually seen these kind of threats out
there you know you hack Ashley Madison
and then you're that group of
hacktivists are upset with the bank that
cleared the credit cards for Ashley
Madison right so where does it is it
ethically correct for them to go and
then hack the bank and steal information
and Dan
their integrity even though they were
really you know they weren't necessarily
doing unethical so again I think that's
uh it really pushes the boundary of good
you know white hats black hat activism
criminality Jim thanks so much it's been
a pleasure having you on the endpoint
security dot CA podcast
thank you rob it was a pleasure talking
to you to ensure day-to-day procedures
support cybersecurity executives and IT
professionals alike need to widen the
cybersecurity conversation beyond
technology many breaches and hacks are
the result of human weakness such as
clicking on a link in a phishing email
or not maintaining adequate password
hygiene or even not removing apps or
contractor access permissions from a
database or network once they're no
longer needed most of these types of
errors happen because of a time crunch
people are busy overloaded with meetings
and messages and have consequently lost
the ability or opportunity for critical
thinking and diligent action mistakes
are made in haste and the repercussions
can literally cost a company its life
this means that executives and IT
professionals together must look at the
overarching culture of their
organization to ensure soft skills such
as time management and relationship
management are taught reinforced and
rewarded a culture that does not allow
time for employees to prioritize will
endure the repercussions of malware a
culture that does not allow time for
data backups will fall prey to
ransomware a culture that keeps
employees perpetually on a hamster wheel
opens itself up to attack from more
focused predators these are management
issues but they deserve attention from
the c-suite and the IT department when
the two meet face to face as regularly
as possible across the adults table here
at endpoint security dot CA we're
obviously very concerned with the safety
and security of our customers their
businesses and their data but as our
Chad here shows the concern can't end
there we have a blog that follows up
from this conversation you can find it
at blog dot endpoint security dot CA and
as you know our close relationship with
the experts at ESET means that we here
at positive
solutions have your back so thank you
again to Jim for joining me today and
thanks to you for joining us as well
stay safe out there and be sure to join
me again for the next chapter in our
ongoing series on cybersecurity for
Canadian business from positive II
solutions I'm Robbie Ferguson
