[Music]
the coffee breaking buddy nice to see
you
it is the what is today anyways guys
like Monday from the April 13th at 13
Monday the 13th Ron one observation that
I have is that when when we're looking
at your side of the room
it's like gamers headquarters and when
we're looking at your wife's side it's
like she's the one doing all the
paperwork bus dad come on Ron
come on discuss she works on different
craft projects so she's always working
on she does painting jewelry making all
kinds of all kinds of things like that
so now he's got a bunch of stuff over
there related to those crafts and things
like that
I absolutely misheard that word when you
said that I apologize
[Laughter]
everybody's in good spirits this Monday
morning
who do we have we've got Sabu at the top
left we've got bp9 at the top right in
the middle row on the Left we've got
Doug Townsend followed by be marshal aka
Marsh man Ron Morissette down at the
bottom there is me and Peter
hi everyone it's the holiday for one
more day no yeah see I'm right back at
work Monday morning all right it's been
a mad day I was like right up to the
last moment hoping I could get here take
a break for just a few minutes you're
welcome
when are you gonna get in here when are
you gonna get in here on your own
account it's supposed to be a coffee
break this is a only started working at
11 so early to take a coffee break
Pass pass no back okay buddy he's got
his headphones back on we gotta be nice
no they don't
yes well that was a nice surprise March
man thank you sir yes lost time there we
saw her off seven she was there
wondering if you were going to take over
the world with all of yours all right I
don't think I'm I think I've never seen
her oh hello sir it's I think
that's the first time I've seen him yep
that's my daughter Caylee nice working
from home as well right
no cuz she's a bank teller so there
isn't anything she can do so she took
leave yeah because co-workers at
to their significant others and she
didn't bring it home tomorrow yeah fair
enough
I'm sorry Robbie you had a question for
solvents oh I just wanted to talk about
the server but as I thinking about
bankers and and that was funny that you
said banking bankers hours that's one of
the weird things is not having any open
banks so i-i've had to use the ATM which
I despise because like I'm old school
that way oh you don't like technology
well I don't like I don't like taking
jump from from tellers like that right
like for general banking I like to go in
and be sociable and I like them to know
my name and you know no you know I call
them by their first names and everything
else try to establish a rapport with my
bank and so I'd use the ATM and I did my
visa payment and it's been two weeks and
it hasn't shown up on my visa hmm so I
emailed the bank and said you know
what's going on why isn't this working
and and they said I got a call Iza to
sort it out so oh just another one of
those things that we have to deal with
when most banks are starting to push out
internet banking and that is teller
there he was explaining so to some woman
how did the the banking work and when
she got things working she didn't have
to come come back to to the store to do
things and then she went away with the
and I managed to get Visa roll excited
as well because I managed to trigger a
fraud all
yeah I'd be mail ordering stuff cuz when
I'm here at home I can do stuff like you
know mow the lawn or whatever I need to
do that sort of stuff and I had to get
some parts in well that's one side of
the country and then I made another
order from from a business in Atlanta
which is on the other side of the
country and you know since they were so
close together they thought we'd better
check on this and make sure that this is
like yeah my lord
right yeah well and that's the problem
too like I'm doing a lot of online
ordering because they're like honestly I
can get a lot of foodstuffs that I can't
like I don't want to go into the grocery
store right now so stuff is coming from
from online so that's where like not
being able to make a visa payment is
really frustrating yeah thank my team so
then I bet you it's a pro a bitch ooh
it's a fraud alert a bitch with
something like that yeah yeah you can't
make name it's a time right I don't have
online banking on my Visa card that's
all so I normally would go in and and
pay it from and it comes from the fact
that it's a personal visa not a not a
business visa so I have to make the
payment for my business account but you
can't do that so you take one card out
put the other card in push in the cash
and it took the cash but it never showed
up on my visa what your your payment
never showed up
that's right yeah I mean you've never
been accredited that's right the money
left the bank but it never got credited
to the card correct yeah in my bank and
in most of the Scandinavian banks yeah
you can in the in their settings and on
the login you can configure which part
of the world your cards I can work and
my card is only working in standing
which is defined as in Norway Sweden and
Denmark and internet so I like my card
is blocked from all physical stores
outside of Scandinavia but it will work
on internet orders so right and I never
travel anywhere except inside Norway and
maybe just across the border for
something in some shops or I'm driving
with my friends so yeah yeah so though
you got me thinking yesterday and over
the past couple days with that server
that you found so I did get on to the
classifieds to see if I could find any
used servers or anything like that and I
came across a site that does like they
do I guess
used server builds so they've got tons
and tons of full Dell servers old like
four years old kind of thing I say you
you can set the specs yourself so i
SPECT out the same thing that you got
and it came to nine hundred and fifty
dollars Canadian oh okay that's okay
that's timely about a hundred colors
American what you got dude oh yeah I'm
thinking I'm just gonna have to I don't
know I'm gonna keep my eye on things
I need more storage it's what I need off
guard was 30 and I have the old one
upstairs that I use for checking
internal disks and in the already share
quite a noise here and this one is just
when it's booting up and then it's quite
down prepare for that so it's a compared
to the other one it's it's quiet so the
other one is my own but compared to my
computer's it's an OC yeah yeah is it
the other one just keeps were in a way
like super loud yeah
as a defense are they are going a little
up and down all the time so oh yeah but
it's ten twelve years old
I gotcha yeah my home my home server
that I use as an ass and plex server is
kind of like that as soon as Plex starts
transcoding video it just starts
whirring off so you can hear it perfect
I want to get more I want to start using
the single board computers a lot more
I've just got to find that sweet spot
with reliability because I I'm very
hesitant like my my own piehole system
is a xu4 so that I can use the emmc as
opposed to an SD card I don't think I
could trust a Raspberry Pi to something
that critical now wouldn't wouldn't be
into I'm sorry you said him to write
which is a MMC the MMC if if the
Raspberry Pi loses power is it likely it
to would be corrupted like the SD card
would be well a Raspberry Pi
unfortunately can't take emmc so that's
why I've opted for X you froze it so I
have motoroi Dex you for is running my
my piehole and a little mask that I've
got going as well but it's a similar
configuration so the question still
stands right I have have the issue it's
a sorry I have numerous different SBC's
numerous and yet the raspberry PI's are
the only ones that corrupt the SD cards
that's it yeah it's a problem inherent
to raspberry pi specifically so a no
droid xu4 I have never had it corrupt an
SD card period I'd still put them I'd
still put him on a UPS oh absolutely
yeah yeah do it
I would not just plug in me to mind
because especially last night we had a
storm blow through here yeah I was
blinking and you know it was not I'm
sure I'm not good for anything that's
not plugged up to a UPS
yeah from the back of the case very
where you going up like the range of the
boat and the run is showing off you Sam
and yeah yesterday I call a printer
skateboard I managed to put a little
shelf in there so I can roll a printer
in and out also for my computer
I have it also on wheels so I'm nice and
sweet
I like the cabling and be like yeah I
did the same
my wife's computer is also on on wheels
and the end of the file cabinet is also
on wheels we put everything on on wheels
so that we can easily clean behind the
wheel that works that works if you had
hard floors but probably not so well in
my situation I got carpet on the floor
in the study so it probably won't work
so well and I can imagine if you have
one has said that kind of setup in on
the East Coast earthquake hits that
could be a quite besides everything
that's when you pull down a 60-watt yeah
really glad GG you voted on that on that
plate there in the manger goes up and
down like a bridge the deleted you fell
today they grew up a drive you today for
the bear when I don't have to drive this
grudge go ahead of it
what will babe go cook leg up with what
people buy I don't know which one of us
go crunch but a lot by doing both of way
I for one will chose a little deja
backup well don't worry I'm still never
trying to imagine them those two ups is
that my friend in there borrow that
18 years ago when the power went out for
seven days just having a UPS system that
holds the power for eight days and
that's gotta cost quite a lot of money
the size of a house true
you consider though remember how I'm
going to be building this one you little
star tech rack mount servers a C into a
whole bunch of single board computers
put that on a UPS I'll bet you you're
gonna get a number of days out of that
because your your draw is like some of
those boards are like just like it's
negligible to figure that out maybe that
would be a test like let's plug that
into a 1500 volt amp and see how long
it'd be called battery that was a
parallel dope and on a fantastics about
Iowa's good you could've had you talked
up and down like that bridge here people
run over tables and I think expecting to
when they've had two about to drink
working two tables remove proof of where
things out below real good around the
village all the tables were what red I
mean they Jai Dixit people will forget
this and you know we go all the time so
we had later the war underfloor now but
we still get your terp them where it's
not very your base table you don't race
table either because they all walk world
as well which makes the bank's horrible
it looks at banged on this go because
I'm Way which I'm horrible thing I
couldn't describe what it looks like
when a dog well they got things to fight
through over the shop and yet God lead
of the road in the gary go very far away
from me in Robbie I have all those
I have all those name servers downstairs
connected to a UPS yeah I think the last
time I lost power the display showed
well over 300 minutes worth of time for
those like 17 or 18 s pcs nice lamps is
the power that's 1515 yeah yeah cool
yeah that's that's awesome and that's a
big rig tip and you're but you're also
you're transforming down but you must
have multiple Transformers do you or did
you have like a single unit that you're
plugging the power into I have the
single unit for the PI's and a bunch of
them that didn't need more current and
that single unit can provide because
that single unit can provide up to 2.4 o
slot yeah some of the board's need at
least three so yeah those have to be on
their own little bricks that'll be
interesting to to see because I
understand that like each wall war is
gonna draw a certain amount of average
but it's kind of wasted right yeah to
take Bo's idea which is to use a
step-down converter right from like a 12
volt or a 24 volt and power every single
board from that that might be sort of a
little more power - yeah I'd love to get
something like that instead of having
all these little bricks again yeah
that's gonna be a fun experiment for you
anyway which barely goes bang anywhere
on you because it's because they run as
you know they were sure they basically
take the mains they don't need to DC
then like what he took up transistors
which go to enjoy a pretty dress woman
50 kilowatts and two faces the important
trended relative with both with ya you
you know your way around Peter I'm gonna
take the easy way out and and just use
like Bose had maybe like a laptop power
supply would be a good idea because they
provide like 19 volts and however man
right so I probably be able to power a
lot off of that without getting overly
complex when it comes to circuit
let's see what I can come up with
because I mean here at work we often
have like a waste that comes through as
we do a waste recycling so we'll often
have like a handful of 19 volt 24 volt
power bricks so I'll try to find one
that you know it's going to go to the
waste anyways and then step that down to
5 volts see how many apps we draw but
like here's one of the one of the little
power supplies for ESP see it's in 12
volt it only draws 4.6 amps when it
outputs it outputs 3 AC yeah yeah
because I have to be careful if I have
too many plugged in I can end up blowing
the circuit breaker
Highschool 30 years ago there was an
older power station that was that closed
down
it was shot down in the 60s I wouldn't
say but the dam and the pipes and the
equipment is still inside the station
when it was maybe they're lost DC power
everything if they wanted to a jam that
could start up on a DC power plant where
you pair that with my bare soil and
that's when the time when you would go
back because they don't they stop going
very doctorate in the goal and again you
go to a gap to get a beautifly that's
what I go back yeah it's starting to
make me think
would it be worth looking at solar
energy as well like
let's do like two about these ideas
you'd probably you know you did to
Georgia let you kill a job no job
yeah yeah yeah oh you have that in the
new studio I've got a skylight I wonder
if I could mount something
can you imagine if I was able to draw
like if I could get enough to to be able
to power a couple of SBC's we could do a
lot with that have a battery in there
somewhere
you can't you can't draw absolutely
absolutely I'm not talking direct draw
but like to be able to power it off of
some kind of because we're talking DC 12
volts right so I can probably power a
number of systems off of a single
battery yeah and if you do that I would
also advise to have some a small lamp or
something to be used as emergency lies
in case of power just imagine you know
in an officer with no windows it will be
quite dark when the power of minimus
power up evening yeah baby I will
welcome will I mean what we charge the
batteries 8,000 say my name sexual power
for that you could use probably Joe that
regard one and use one I think oh okay
yeah that makes sense
I wonder if there's some way like could
you failover so that if the battery
depleted could it fail over instantly
tomb and was there a circuit that could
do that without without any lost
something like a dead man quick it works
it usually works the other way around
though technically this is what I've got
as long as the power of mains it will
provide power to the range me domains
drop something at UPS the mindset of
that is to backup power if power is lost
but what if what if we flip that around
and said provide power but if there's
not enough sunlight or there's not
enough power in the batteries then sweep
back to the mains
it's assuming mind is available yeah and
I guess that kind of it you can easily
save 50 cents with your two thousand
dollar investment now it would depend on
will you met their solar cells because
if you put them behind the glass you may
not get enough you may not get enough
solar energy there too - yes if it's the
I mean it's like you have to be up on
the roof I'm credible that means
drilling holes in the roof to let the
cables and all through all the trains
the glass would probably refract the
sunlight came in so to use a anyone work
he's all done I am you I am you J go to
bed the cloud material so what we
learned today boys is that my ideas are
stupid shooting down on that no guys we
got to wrap it up for today but I look
forward to seeing you guys again
tomorrow for our coffee break have a
wonderful afternoon see you too
