welcome to category five technology TV
mikrotik make incredibly powerful
routers at a very affordable price and
this week we're going to learn how to
create a Wi-Fi hotspot for this studio
space but the information that I'm going
to teach you is going to allow you to
create your own Wi-Fi hotspot for guest
access for your business or for your
home and with this information you're
going to be able to lock down that
access in such a way that one the people
who access the guest Wi-Fi are not going
to be able to milk all your bandwidth
because you are going to throttle it and
to the people who access your guest
Wi-Fi are not going to have access to
your personal files or other resources
within your private network this is an
isolated wireless land that we're going
to be creating today stick around I'm
going to show you how to do it right
after this
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 dot TV now
this broadcast would not be possible if
it was not for the support of our
community and in particular I want to
say a big thanks to bp9 Scott Berkeley
Ron Morissette Jerry Kowalski
Jonathan Garvey jens Nissen bollock now
ski and bill marshall plus everyone who
has supported this show via through
patreon at patriot patreon.com slash
category 5 or via our kickstarter
campaign that recently wrapped up that
helped to put us into this space and is
allowing me the funding that I need in
order to basically build the studio
slowly but surely we're getting there
and you know chipping away at this and
that as we go and some things are
starting to come in over the past couple
of weeks that that were ordered like a
month and a half ago I still can't have
the contractor here I believe that is
opening up but now of course having open
and well being that it's opening up our
contractor is jam-packed and has a very
busy schedule and I had to be honest
with them and say look I understand
you're super busy let me know when
you're free when we can book you because
what we're doing here is not an
emergency I'm going to make
I'm gonna do my best with what we have I
don't want to come in and feel like this
is urgent and it's an emergency and I
got a charge of prime rate so you know
that's being frugal Ravi so let's let's
just wait it out and we're waiting it
out together and it's going to be great
it's already great what am I talking
about it's fantastic we're just not it's
going to get better how can I get better
than this it will and you'll be like wow
that's awesome hey before I jump into
the show if you haven't already done so
yet I want to encourage you please
subscribe to us on YouTube
if we can hit 25,000 subscribers on
Linux tech show com I'll do a dance for
you how's that sound
we're very very close would you like to
see Robbie dance oh no now I'm committed
I should be committed I'll be committed
after I after I've done my dance I'm not
a dancer folks so please do not
subscribe to our YouTube channel we are
we have two channels ok so well two main
channels we've got category 5 technology
TV that's where you're gonna get the
full one-hour show back-to-back like
completely unedited and that's your full
show now on the other hand we've got
Linux tech show calm which reroutes you
to Linux tech show on YouTube and that
channel by contrast is taking that one
hour show and cutting it up into its
individual segments so all of the things
that are covered throughout the course
of the one-hour episode becomes short
little 20 minute clips 10 minute clips
even two minute clips depending on what
they are we also break up the newsroom
so every single news story is available
for you at Linux tech show com so if you
see something on the news room that you
want to share on social media go to new
Linux tech show calm into the newsroom
playlist and you'll see all of those
individual clips that you can share and
it's specifically going to share that
one story that you have interest in or
that you think that your followers will
also have a lot of interest in so if you
want to see me dance
hey subscribe to us on YouTube and click
the bell and you'll get the
notifications now we've been looking at
the mikrotik brand routers and the full
series is available absolutely free at
cat5 dot TV slash micro tech now that
our network is up and running let's
create a guest Wi-Fi SSID our guest
Wi-Fi will have a throttled connection
to the internet and they will not have
access to our local resources so that's
Network shares printers things like that
I want to lock that down we're gonna
create a truly isolated Wi-Fi connection
to allow guests friends customers or
visitors to use our internet connection
without risking slowing down our
connection or without risking the
integrity or privacy of our data so this
is going to be a complex tutorial today
so what I've done is I've actually
documented all of the steps that I'm
gonna go through at cat5 dot TV slash
mikrotik so that you can follow along it
just makes it a lot easier for you so
let's get right into it I am actually
going to be going from those notes
because this is truly a sophisticated
series that we're getting into right
here today or at least aspect of the
series so I am gonna be working on my
pine book here and I want to just bring
up my laptop and the screen looks
fantastic this week look at that I've
made some improvements here at the
studio so I think you're gonna find that
things are a lot easier to read now
thank you for everyone for your patience
through this time because it has been
difficult for many broadcasters but
we've made some improvements this week
so thank you for your patience so the
first thing I want to do in web fig here
is I want to go into my wireless
security profiles so understand
I don't want those who are going to be
accessing my guest Wi-Fi to use the same
password as I use on my main Wi-Fi
that's particularly what I don't want to
be giving out so let's do that right now
let's set up a separate password by
clicking on wireless at the left here
and then I'm going to click on security
profiles at the
now click on add new and you'll see
default is actually my my network so
that's the password for my network the
Wi-Fi that I've already set up and I'm
gonna click add new and we're just going
to call this one guest just like that
one note is I want to turn off WPA PSK
because WPA as you know is very part of
me it's very easy to compromise so we
don't want to use WPA we only want to
use wpa2 because wpa2 is much safer as
far as somebody being able to hack into
your Wi-Fi network so turn off WPA PSK
leave wpa2 PSK enabled and then down
here because that is enabled we need to
enter a pre-shared key aka the password
for our network so I'm gonna use dum-dum
one two three four this guest Wi-Fi so
this is only for the guest Wi-Fi
remember that ok once I've entered my
password I'm going to hit OK so I
haven't actually created a network yet
all I've done is I've created a security
profile called guest and that security
profile contains the wpa2 shared key for
that guest network and I notice that my
default network is in fact using WPA pre
shared key so while we're here let's
open that one and let's turn off WPA PSK
because I do not want someone hacking
into my main network and hit OK
it only took a moment's time for my pine
Book Pro to disconnect from the Wi-Fi
and reconnect the password hasn't
changed simply the encryption algorithm
has changed so now as you can see on the
screen neither of my Wi-Fi security keys
will allow WPA they only allow wpa2 it's
as simple as that now jump into our
Wi-Fi interfaces this is where you see
my two gigahertz and five gigahertz
networks and I want to add a new one for
my guest Wi-Fi but I don't have another
radio so what are we gonna do we're
going to share the radio with one of my
W lands so we're not going to add
another radio we don't have to
by an access point or any kind of device
we're just going to use the same
mikrotik router so the only caveat of
that is that it means that the guest
Wi-Fi is going to be sharing the same
channel as our Wi-Fi like our actual
Wi-Fi for our network however because
it's a different network and it's a
different password they're not going to
be able to access our things it's just
going to be sharing the same the same
Channel whether or not that matters I
don't think it does
alright let's go add new and we're gonna
choose virtual because we are not
creating a real one now we're creating a
virtual network here on our wireless tab
in Wi-Fi interfaces so let's create a
virtual interface first thing I need to
do is always I mean give things a name
I'm going to call this one guest
- Wi-Fi and you'll notice I'm using
guests throughout you might use your
last name or your family name or
something fun for your guest Wi-Fi you
can do that but for the sake of making
this tutorial universally accessible and
easy to follow I'm using guests because
anyone can go through these steps and
then retrace and rename things if you
want to but you don't have to do that so
on this network let's scroll down just a
little ways and we're going to see
something here called SSID we know that
the SSID for our network is basically
what you see when you bring up your
phone and you access the Wi-Fi and you
see a list of the different networks so
right now I see cat 5 TV and cat 5 TV -
5g and about a billion other Wi-Fi
networks around me but I want to give
this one an SSID that designates this
the guest Wi-Fi now in our case today
I'm going to call this SSID simply
guessed again I'm going to refer back to
my comment that we're just making this
universally accessible but you can call
that whatever you want this could be I
could call this cat 5 TV - guest which
would be very appropriate because if
there's some other network called guest
because that's pretty generic
that could cause a
conflict but also it just makes it so
that when people come into the studio
they can say oh that's the guest Wi-Fi
for cat5 TV hey what's the password
dum-dum 1 2 3 nice and simple right but
for today's demonstration we are just
gonna go with guest and now the final
thing that we need to do of course is
set our security profile for the Wi-Fi
connection and we're gonna change that
from default to guest so that's gonna
set so that we're using the password
dum-dum 1 2 3 as we specified with that
security profile and that's literally
all there is to adding the interface hit
ok now because I am making changes to my
Wi-Fi setup and because my pine Book Pro
is connected to my Wi-Fi right now
remember that Wi-Fi now the router is
not rebooting my servers and everything
my Internet's not going down
however the Wi-Fi is going to hiccup
there because the Wi-Fi transmitter is
restarting or reloading those
configuration settings on its own so now
that that's finished reloading those
settings you'll see now that under
wireless Wi-Fi interfaces I have one
called guest Wi-Fi and that is a virtual
interface connecting to my Wi-Fi so the
next thing we need to do is we need to
start routing how the traffic is going
to flow and do you get the sense here
that hey if you if you follow these
steps and if you understand the steps
involved in setting up a mikrotik router
you can do some really sophisticated
stuff at the top of this demonstration I
did warn that this is going to be kind
of complicated not that it's hard it's
not difficult it's not challenging it's
just there are a lot of steps so go to
cap 5 dot TV slash micro tech and I've
listed those out in a documentation
format for you and the entire series is
available for you absolutely free so if
you want to follow these steps and
you're a little worried about maybe
fumbling over something that I've said
or maybe I'm moving a little bit too
quickly hey head over to cap 5 TV slash
mikrotik to get yourself set up with
those Doc's all right so to create a
bridge I'm going to go over to the
left-hand menu and click on bridge we
can see there's an active bridge already
running there
we want to add a new one for our guest
Wi-Fi because we want this to be
separate from our main bridge so I've
clicked add new and I'm gonna give this
one a name you guessed it bridge - guest
let's keep everything simple I want you
to follow this verbatim and that's gonna
help to make sure that everything makes
sense in the end and you can always go
back and and rename things if you feel
that you need to that's literally all we
need to do in order to create a bridge
hit okay so now as you can see we now
have a bridge called bridge guests
sitting there doing absolutely nothing
so we need to actually specify how the
ports are going to be assigned so click
on ports and we need to actually connect
that bridge to our new guest Wi-Fi so
add new and then change the interface to
guest Wi-Fi and the bridge we don't want
that using our main bridge we want that
to go to bridge - guest and now hit OK
and now you can see right at the bottom
there guest - Wi-Fi bridge - guest all
set ready to go and waiting for us to
finish configuring so the next thing
that we need to do obviously we haven't
told this guest Wi-Fi the bridge what IP
block to use and again I'm gonna back up
to when I said I want this network to be
separate from my private network I do
not want the guest Wi-Fi on the same IP
block I do not want their IP block to be
able to access mine because I have
Network shares on my server and I don't
want them to have access to deleting my
files or worse yet here we live in a
world where someone could connect to
your guest Wi-Fi from their Windows
laptop and they have ransomware that
ransomware then goes out on the network
and looks for network shares and
encrypts all your files so even though
you may have anti-virus or you may even
have nothing but Linux on your network
because they've connected to your Wi-Fi
they now have access to encrypting all
your files with their malware that they
have on their laptop so we're creating
a network that protects you entirely
against that kind of infiltration as
well as the malicious person who would
connect to your guest Wi-Fi and try to
seek out private information on your
network so we're gonna protect you
against that let's set up an IP block
for this guest Wi-Fi and I go IP and
then addresses on the left-hand side
here and you can see here that my
network is 10.0.0.0 dot zero dot one two
three four so on and Counting so I'm
gonna create a new IP block by simply
clicking add new and we're gonna make
this one a little different so we're
gonna go with 10.10 dot dot 1/24 and on
the interface guess which interface
we're gonna use here folks bridge -
guest that's the comment field that I
was talking about last week that we
didn't really see we don't need that in
this case but you can add comments to
anything that you add in web thick hit
ok so now we have a new network here
called 10.10 10.1 and it will assign I
well we will inevitably when we set up a
DHCP server see there's lots of steps it
will assign IP addresses on that IP
block so speaking of DHCP server that's
our next step so we're gonna jump over
here and under IP which is already open
already expanded and we're gonna click
on DHCP server and here you can see my
current running DHCP server but the
thing with this is that it's got kind of
a weird name out of the box so I first
thing I want to do is I want to open
that and I'm just gonna rename this one
local and the reason I want to do that
is I want to always remind myself that
that DHCP pool is my local network it
has full access to everything on my
network you do not want to assign a
guest to that so by calling it local it
just keeps me a little bit more safe
because it stands out as that is
definitely my local network now let's
add a new DHCP server and you can see
that there's all this setup that you can
go through but I want to show you a tool
that's going to help make this even
easier so I just brought that up but
cancel and you can see there's actually
a DHCP setup and that's going to bring
up a wizard that is going to make this a
lot simpler for us and this is literally
easy breezy we're gonna change the DHCP
server interface to bridge - guest and
then watch this we're gonna hit next
next see it automatically assigned it to
the correct network next next DNS
servers is just pulling from my router
that's fine we can change we're gonna
actually change those in a future
episode when we set up a pie hole that's
not a bad word that's actually a device
that's gonna act as our DNS server in
house and block advertising block
pornography all that kind of stuff click
next next next next next next
just leave everything as is and we're
done whoo we've got guest 1 and notice
okay well why is it DHCP 1
well my bridge guest I can see that it's
bridge guest but notice it I didn't hand
her a name for it and so now I I can do
the exact same thing I can open that up
and call this guest
easy-peasy right ok so now I'm at the
point where I should be able to see the
guest Wi-Fi network on my phone so let's
do a quick refresh of Wi-Fi here and
sure enough there's cat 5 TV 5 gigahertz
cat 5 TV and one called guest so let's
click it actually before I do that I'm
gonna bring up a local network resource
unconnected to cat 5 TV I want you to
see that I am in fact able to access
local resources so let's just bring up
my VirtualBox login there it is so once
I switch over to the guest Wi-Fi I'm
gonna use that as a demonstration to
show whether or not we're able to access
those resources so back in my Wi-Fi
let's connect to guest enter my password
from the security profile dum-dum 1 2 3
connect obtaining IP address and we're
in
what options do we have here let's look
at the IP address 10 see the Gateway 10
10 10 . 1 all right so let's let's look
at our browser again now that I'm
connected to that Network and let's try
to access PHP VirtualBox and you'll
notice yes I am indeed still able to
access PHP VirtualBox I've clicked on
the address bar and I've clicked on the
link and it is loading and that is
simply because I have yet to create a
firewall rule 2 basically and it trap
that Wi-Fi the guest access and make it
so that it's not allowed to communicate
back with my local area network or my
Wi-Fi devices on my actual Wi-Fi so the
way that we're gonna do that is back on
our mikrotik web the Figg I'm going to
click I've opened IP and then we're
gonna go to firewall we've already seen
this on previous episodes of cat5 TV
slash mikrotik you can see I've added a
couple of new things since the last time
we were here but what I want to do this
time is I want to create a rule to be
able to make it so that the Wi-Fi for
the guest network is not able to get
access to 10.0.0.0 all rule and you're
gonna laugh at how easy this is you'll
notice the chain is defaulting to
forward that is what we want so leave
that as is and we're gonna set the
source address so this is if the IP
address is coming from this then do this
so watch what I'm gonna do here 10.10
dot dot 0 slash 24 so anyone who is on
the guest Wi-Fi IP block is going to
fall into this the source address
destination address this is my network
10.0.0.0 slash 24 if anyone from this
network attempts to access this network
what do you want to do scroll down
action drop so what we're saying is any
source from the guest Wi-Fi IP block
trying to access my actual land we are
going to drop those packets I want to
point out that this is unidirectional so
there may be cases where you want
devices to access your your wireless
network but not have access to your
internal resources however you do want
your internal resources to be able to
access them think about perhaps an IP
camera that uses Wi-Fi to connect well
you want it to be able to connect to the
internet you want it to be able to
access the network and you from your
computer on your land want to be able to
access that camera but you don't want
that camera to have the rights to access
your things on your network it's just an
example but I mean you can probably
think of devices that you'd want to have
kind of separate from your network so
that if somebody grabs it if somebody
steals that let's say you've got a
Raspberry Pi sitting in the roof
somewhere connected to your Wi-Fi well
if someone steals that you don't want
them having access to your network so
putting it on a separate network but
allowing you to be able to connect to it
so we understand that we're doing this
unidirectionally this is only going to
affect the guest Wi-Fi this is not
reducing it's not eliminating my ability
to connect to the devices on the guest
Wi-Fi let's hit OK and now we have that
route set up however you've noticed it
has placed it at the bottom and we've
already talked about this we want to
make sure that our forward rules happen
before some of the mikrotik stuff and I
certainly want to make sure that this
happens before the rules that I've
created if they involve internal
infrastructure I want this one to happen
after
this no I don't I want it to happen
before this because if they're gonna
access 10.0.0.0 it they would actually
have access to 10.0.0.0 category-five TV
so I'm gonna drop as the first thing so
now without having to restart without
having to do anything else
I'm gonna bring back up my phone here
which is connected to the guest Wi-Fi
and let's jump back to my browser and
let's click on PHP VirtualBox
which you see that progress indicator up
at the top it's hung up now I mean I
know that I can still see PHP VirtualBox
because I've previously loaded it let's
go home and let's go there again
so 10.0 PHP VirtualBox watch this I've
clicked on it where is it it's not
working because I am connected to the
guest Wi-Fi this site can't be reached
however is the internet working
let's just go category 5 TV yep
the internet works a treat let's try to
go back to we're on IP
10.00 10 which is my VirtualBox server
and let's because we know that's going
to timeout
I'm going to change to my cat 5 TV 5
gigahertz Wi-Fi there we go connected
and bring it up and boom I'm instantly
in so as you can see we have
successfully created a guest Wi-Fi that
is separate from our network they cannot
access resources on 10.0.0.0 they can't
gain access to that from our guest Wi-Fi
we're also going to learn in coming
weeks how we can throttle that I
mentioned that that we are going to be
looking at throttling but we're out of
time for this week segment so I will
move that into a future
as well so make sure you watch for that
we're gonna learn how to throttle the
connection for our guests Wi-Fi to make
sure that even you know if I give the
kids access to it on their tablets are
their friends and then the friends are
down the road downloading videos through
my Wi-Fi I don't want them milking all
my bandwidth so we're going to cover
that on a coming show as well cap five
dot TV slash mikrotik is where you want
to go to get the entire series
absolutely free please post your
comments and make sure you subscribe to
us at Linux tech show.com which is where
I'm posting all these as well which
reroutes to our YouTube channel called
Linux tech show thank you for watching
everybody we've got to jump over to the
newsroom here is Becca here's what's
coming up in a category-5 TV newsroom
iBM is laying off thousands of employees
and seeking flexibility during the kovat
19 crisis account stealing malware is
making his rounds on discord a pizzeria
owner in the US has discovered and
exploited a flaw in door Dash's
marketing scheme and makes money buying
his own pizzas microsoft has fixed a
critical vulnerability affecting all
Windows versions since 1996 and unmanned
drones will slash NHS delivery times to
a remote Scottish hospital stick around
the full details are coming up this is
the category five dot TV newsroom
covering the week's top
with a slight linux bias
from the newsroom I'm Becca Ferguson
both hewlett-packard enterprise and IBM
have announced significant cost-cutting
measures including pay cuts and
significant job losses the kovat 19
crisis is hitting almost every market
sector hard and now the dominoes are
starting to fall as other small medium
and large businesses reduce operations
or shudder for good the tech firms that
rely on enterprise clients are
themselves taking heavy losses in laying
off personnel IBM announced his layoffs
late Thursday in a statement the company
said the highly competitive marketplace
requires flexibility to constantly remix
high-value skills which in this case
means deciding you no longer place a
high value on the skills a significant
number of employees bring to the
socially distance table
IBM like many firms now facing cuts and
layoffs was not in the best of financial
situations before Cova 19 hit the
company's CEO Arvind Krishna has been
with the company for decades but only
stepped into the top seed in April
saying at the time he was focused on
building up the parts of the company
that support cloud computing and
artificial intelligence and was willing
to move away from the rest IVM did not
specify how many positions were being
cut but both The Wall Street Journal and
Bloomberg News report thousands of
employees were affected in five states
California New York North Carolina
Missouri and Pennsylvania IBM said in a
statement it would offer subsidized
medical coverage to affected employees
for the next 12 months Hewlett Packard
Enterprise also announced its
cost-cutting plans on Thursday as part
of its more recent quarterly earnings
report the company will cut some
salaries through at least the end of
October with executives seeing pay cuts
of between 20 to 25 percent the company
like younger tech brethren such as
Facebook and Twitter says it will
further save money by embracing remote
work in the longer term allowing it to
shutter some offices researchers have
found an updated version of Anarchy
grabber that Steve
victims plaintext passwords and infects
victims friends on discord detected as
anarchy grabber 3 the new trojan variant
modifies the discord clients
javascriptcore upon successful
installation and this modified version
gives the malware the ability to load
other JavaScript files when the infected
discord client is open the threat loaded
inject j/s from a new anarchy folder
this file loaded another script called
discord magis and the two scripts
together logs the user out at which
point they are prompted to log back in
the new Anarchy grabber variant then
attempts to disable two-factor
authentication on its victims account
and steals information including their
username plaintext password and user
token which it sends to the attackers
own discord server by a web hook the
malware also attempts to spread itself
to other discord users by sending a
message that contains the malware to
everyone on the user's friend list after
modifying the discord client and our key
grabber doesn't run again which makes it
difficult for antivirus software to
detect the threat since there are no
malicious processes it also ensures that
a victim remains part of the botnet
whenever they interact with discord
using the app Robbie how can a user
determine if they're infected if
antivirus can't detect it
well Becca tech savvy users can open the
index j/s file and then they can check
the contents so on Windows you're gonna
find that in its app data just wrap that
in percent signs to get there really
quickly and then you'll enter the
discord folder Linux and Mac users go to
the doc config hidden folder in your
home folder and within that you'll find
the discord folder holding all the files
now on any architecture the files in
from there are gonna be the same so
whether you're on Windows Mac or Linux
you'll note that that there are many
many files called index J s in the tree
from that folder so the one that you're
looking for is in discord underscore
desktop underscore core and the
directory format is your discord version
now in my case here on
windows if that's zero point zero point
306 so I enter that folder then modules
then discord underscore desktop
underscore core and I can check the
contents of the index J ass file and if
it contains anything other than a
command to require core dot s R it's
probably infected thanks Robby
if you suspect infection uninstall the
discord app and reinstall change your
password and ensure 2fa is reenable diff
it's been turned off whether discord
email Facebook or otherwise be diligent
and ensure you only click links you know
you can trust since malware like this
spreads to friendless it's also
important to remember that just because
it's one of your trusted friends sending
it doesn't mean you can automatically
trust the links a simple did you send
this question could be all it takes to
protect you your account and your
privacy the owner of a pizza restaurant
in the US has discovered the the door -
delivery app has been selling his food
cheaper than he does while still paying
him full price for orders a pizza for
which he charged twenty four dollars was
being advertised for 16 on door - and
when he secretly ordered it himself the
app paid his restaurant the full twenty
four dollars while charging him 16 so he
ordered ten pizzas paid one hundred and
sixty dollars and had them delivered to
a friend's house the restaurant was then
paid two hundred forty dollars for the
order by door - in further tests the
restaurant prepared his friends order by
boxing up the pizza base without any
toppings maximizing the profit from the
mismatched prices and it worked
content strategist Rand John Roy who is
a friend of the pizzeria owner blogged
about it he said I was genuinely curious
if doordash would catch on but they
didn't the curiosity stemmed from the
fact that they had not asked to be put
on the app so it didn't make sense that
the company would be selling their pizza
at a loss they later found out it was
part of a cunning strategy to build
customer demand and then use that demand
to get the restaurant to sign up mr. Roy
says they have a test period where they
scrape the restaurants website and don't
charge any fees to anyone so they can
ideally go to the restaurant
the positive order data to then get the
restaurant signed on to the platform mr.
Roy is of the opinion that it's bad
business
he says you have insanely large pools of
capital creating an incredibly
inefficient money losing business model
doordash is backed by investment giants
Softbank which last week posted a
record-breaking loss of nearly 13
billion thanks Becca we do have to take
a really quick break but when we come
back Becca's got more of your top tech
news for the week so stick around
researchers have shown that a
vulnerability in a decade's old
Microsoft Windows component that
controls printing could be abused by
malicious actors to gain elevated
privileges on the targeted system the
flaw which they dubbed print demon
resides in the print spooler and get
this
it affects all Windows versions since NT
4.0 the component has remained largely
unchanged since even though another
vulnerability affecting it was abused by
the infamous Stuxnet a decade ago
Microsoft said of the fix an elevation
of privileged vulnerability exists when
the Windows print spooler service
improperly allows arbitrary writing to
the file system an attacker who
successfully exploited this
vulnerability could run arbitrary code
with elevated system privileges an
attacker could then install programs
view change or delete data or create new
accounts with full user rights microsoft
laid down the likelihood of exploitation
saying that an attacker would need to
log on to an affected system and use a
specially written script or application
but as we know RDP exploits are
occurring in the wild with malware such
as SAR whant opening a remote access to
windows systems so in today's connected
world saying a hacker needs to have
access to a system in order to exploit
it is an irresponsible point to make
which could miss
in experienced IT departments into
complacency the vulnerability can be
abused to elevate privileges bypass
endpoint detection and response rules
and game persistence as part of this
month's patch Tuesday which plugged a
total of 111 security holes Microsoft
changed how the windows print spooler
component writes data to the file system
and it advised to download and apply the
update this exploit goes to show why
running a version of one of Windows that
is past end-of-life is unwise the fix
for this exploit will not be released to
eol operating systems such as Windows XP
or even Windows 7 which will remain
vulnerable to this critical flaw perhaps
this is also another example of why it's
high time to consider switching to Linux
remote control drones will be used to
deliver coronavirus testing kits to a
remote Scottish Hospital and they're
being flown outside of the operators
direct line-of-sight backed by the local
NHS trust drone firm Sky ports will fly
drones between the Isle of Mull and Oban
the closest town on the Scottish
mainland we've reported on similar in
recent trial programs and it seems it's
working as more communities begin
tapping into the unmatched capabilities
of UAVs Sky ports chief exec Duncan
Walker speaks about their recent trial
in the Scottish area of Argyll and Bute
saying it provides an important
short-term response to the current
pandemic and lays the foundations from
which to grow a permanent drone delivery
operation across a network of healthcare
facilities around the country his
company will fly unmanned delivery
drones made by German company wing
copter the craft will fly the 17
kilometres between Lauren and Isles
hospital in open and I own a community
hospital in Craig nur while 17
kilometres doesn't sound like a long
distance as the crow flies it's a
lengthy arduous journey by Road and
ferry
by contrast sky port says it will take
just 15 minutes by drone the trial will
take place using beyond visual line of
sight rules for
ahran special permission from the Civil
Aviation Authority drone flights that go
beyond the operators line-of-sight are
normally prohibited however the main
perceived benefit of aviation drones
cannot be realized until the tech is
proven safe enough to be thought to be
flown without a watchful human nearby in
case of collisions the trial will take
place over the next two weeks completing
in the first week of June
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux'
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at patreon.com slash
category 5 from the category 5 TV
newsroom i'm becca ferguson all right
thanks Becca and thanks to you for
joining us again this week it's been
great having you here I want to remind
you that we are on twitter at category 5
TV I personally am on twitter at robbie
ferguson and i follow back so give me a
follow and I'll hunt you down and I will
follow you
hey if you like to watch the edited down
versions of category-five technology TV
they're very shareable
they're very consumable they're just
quick little snippet videos head on over
to linux tech show calm that's a great
YouTube channel to subscribe to if you
love the content that we produce and as
we already established I'm gonna do a
little dance for you if you if you help
me to achieve twenty five thousand
subscribers within the month of May I'm
gonna say that within the month of May
twenty twenty we're gonna achieve that
together category five technology TV is
also on roku
we're on other HLS players we're on Plex
were on cody you can get our channels at
github comm slash cat five TV and of
course our main website ties everything
together you'll find that at category
five dot TV and don't forget all these
web addresses and things right but our
series this week is on the micro tick
and I do have a very special link for
you at cat5 dot TV slash micro tech
which has all the details and these
steps to follow in order to achieve
everything that we've done here this
week so you have a wonderful week
everybody and I look forward to seeing
you again
in one week's time see ya
you
