welcome to category five technology TV
this week I'm going to be looking at
this beauty bitty box with a whole lot
of power it's the wise cents we're gonna
learn how well this can be used for
security but also just for the general
smart home I'm gonna be checking that in
just couple minute I'm also we've got a
new LCD writing tablet we call it a
paper around here we're gonna be looking
at the new one for 2019 which fits in
your pocket and incidentally looks a lot
better than the one from a year ago so
stick around our live recordings are
trusted only to solid-state drives by
Kingston technology revive your computer
with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the International
Association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV /ia
IP welcome to show everybody it's so
great having you here nice to see Henry
and Sasha I'm Robby and we've got a
great show planned for you this week
we're gonna be looking at a device from
wise that supplements your wise Cam
Henry before we get into the show you're
gonna be showing us something that is
rather intriguing rather
out-of-this-world huh but Before we jump
into that I want to remind you make sure
you subscribe to us on YouTube and while
you're at it click that little Bell so
that you can get the notification
anytime we are live or when we post
brand new content like this we're new
tada so Henry yeah yeah Apollo mission
successfully launched to the moon you're
a little bit later than they did 50
years ago plus a few weeks they did
we're a little behind yeah they did and
they did it on a computer that's less
powerful than our cellphones and today
we can actually simulate that computer
I'm tired consider that for a second
that I'm imagining that their computers
were rather significant size-wise
probably and this fits in my pocket
exactly and it's it's so amazing and all
modern-day guidance computers kind of go
back to this one computer and today we
can actually play around with the
software that they used we can make a
virtual machine out of that exact code
that they used and we can actually even
distribute it to a Raspberry Pi Wow and
have this giant machine in this little
single board computer now that's just
mind-blowing control missions guys we
have a link to to the Apollo guidance
computer software which you can as Henry
said install on a raspberry PI's it's
all free and they have all the
documentation and they have the mission
logs so like even if you aren't into
computers just the historical aspect of
oh sure yeah see all their little flight
plans yeah that'd be interesting to try
to and you being a pilot like how does
this translate to modern flight thing
whenever I use a g1000 so like nowadays
we have computer screens for our
aircraft movies all those kind of like
guidance programs all those kind of
heralds back to this one computer like
this one computer helped with of course
fighter jets and stuff but eventually
led to the space shuttles programs so
it's amazing what we can look at today
and play around with and especially just
young kids playing around with this
program and back then this was
state-of-the-art this is like top-notch
top-secret stuff so it's really exciting
to be able to show this off on our home
computer and any homey anyone can
download it that's so cool
cat five dot TV slash AGC to get it now
so you've actually got it up on the
screen and I'm gonna let you kind of
take over so this is the the Apollo
guidance computer website so this is
where you can get the project itself for
a Raspberry Pi or and I say Raspberry Pi
because that is super impressive but you
can install it on any computer yeah and
it's really amazing cuz it's technically
open-source now because of course NASA
they love to share their own missions
but a lot of people have done really
amazing things so people have made
little Apollo
simulators out of it and even I and even
phone apps out of this computer you can
literally do all this on your phone
nowadays now before we get into the
actual computer for those that are
interested when I go to the downloads
page mmm pardon me voice crack when I go
to the downloads page they do have
Windows Mac and everything else and of
course they do have the Raspberry Pi
distributable there's an actual Edition
for pi and if you go right into the
little About section you can actually
get the actual app set up so it can
actually say sudo apt-get yeah and that
makes things so much easier as you know
Robbie unreal and it just it's literally
out of this world but no do you want to
see what the astronauts uh when they
went to the moon would love to and play
it around yeah okay I just reach over
here and hit a button and boom all we
are back good
this is in your browser so what's
different here you haven't installed it
on a Raspberry Pi so we're gonna be
using this version today because it's on
it's a JavaScript version so anyone can
do this without needing to code yeah so
again you don't have to have any
computer knowledge or basic knowledge
yeah literally you can just go online to
this link and it's just a JavaScript so
it's the exact same code
they've just painstakingly transcribed
it everything over to Java so this you
don't even need to install anything but
with that being said it's a lot more fun
to do a Raspberry Pi project so I
recommend that version but today we're
gonna stay with this one cuz it's nice
and simple and I can show you a few
things I can play around with cool and I
will give you a link for that cat5 dot
TV slash AGC to the number two excellent
number that way it will take you to the
JavaScript version if you just want to
try it out in your browser that's nice
yeah as Henry says though we can get the
Raspberry Pi version is there a
difference between the Raspberry Pi
version there is with the Raspberry Pi
version and just even the Mac and
Windows versions they are a lot more
in-depth in the sense that you have
multiple windows simulating different
instruments so again like you have like
your gimble's you have all these other
buttons here it's really nice and simple
because it's all in one web page okay
but if you really want to get into it if
you want to like program GPIO
your own buttons and like one physical
three make your own space button or
something just there you go that is
possible so that's so great with having
the wonders of the Internet yeah in
today's modern age so this would be the
perfect science project like this would
get you all the way through oceans it's
not like program their own apps and
stuff in our days so I'm I wouldn't be
surprised if somebody makes it up their
own like space sim or something that I
think sasha is hit like bang on right
there though like making a SUP make a
spaceship out of a giant cardboard
fringe box or something with a
flat-screen TV in front with a Raspberry
Pi powering everything and it's like a
yeah an Apollo mission simulator do it
send in your videos so it's actually
been around 90 seconds which is actually
perfect timing Oh have we taken off I
almost actually how do we do the soap
push the laptop button right there okay
so what I did sneekly is that I said
enable I am you it's the top button here
I am you being the inertial unit and oh
I was gonna suggest EMU EMU EMU okay but
anyways what that does is that it
simulates it starting its gyros and
stuff and the computer starting up and
right next to it we have a launch check
this button which is fairly important
we're gonna go up here for a second and
we did step number one will be waited
and here's something really interesting
alright this looks like jibber jabber
right it says looks like a license plate
b37
e o 1e I'm like what the heck is that
yeah yeah now the really interesting way
that they made the Apollo flight
computer work yeah is that we see two
buttons verb and noun okay alright I'm
not talking about a spelling for you but
what that means is that there's a
hundred verbs and a hundred nouns so how
it works is that there's two sections so
if you say verb 0 1 yeah you get access
to a hundred nouns select 0 0 to 99 and
each one serves a function so for
example like
let's go back to the computer for a sec
yeah if I say verb
I think it's 35 and then just now zero
so if I just press ENTER it does a
system check so like all the lights
light up and it's like doing all of its
checks and it's doing cool things this
is why they needed like the flight
manuals I know the code you could
literally run the whole mission from
just just two buttons ribbon down it's
amazing so I'm just gonna say verb 36
just to clear this out and let's let's
go to the moon do you guys want to go to
the moon yeah okay so now it presumably
in this state right now are we on the
platform on earth are we orbiting about
to separate we're getting we've just
strapped down we're doing our little
preflight checks we're pushing little
buttons I'm looking okay so we're all
free take like radioing yeah you know
we're getting all comfy in our space
yeah let's do this
so it says verb 37 okay so let's say
verb 3 7 this would be wonderful with a
touchscreen I know again that's that's
why you want like a GPIO or something to
make actual buttons and now I think
every click now but now 0 1 oh I see so
that's what that license plate looking
thing looked like yeah so there go now
burb is flashing let's go over here huh
so it initiates blah blah blah blah so
program you launch program should read
one so it's just gonna be a few seconds
and it's just getting it's like a last
check or something
the engines are warm enough yeah it's
doing its thing alright so weight is
calculator let's see Allah Allah make
your o2 so pretty much right now they're
just all be getting ready yeah and
pretty much after it's ready so when
it's done we have a little button here
that says launch so when the pitch
number and this little guy here like
your little vertical horizon yeah both
of these are gonna go to like 90 ish
degrees so that's simulating you like
lying on the platform I'm not I can't do
that
but yeah so that simulates it like being
upright so the computers ready to go and
then to make things simple we have like
the launch button dyche's press launch
and because now so it's so good so this
so this is basically what they would
have seen on the ground or in the
capsule itself the capsule did be
getting this data back from the capsule
yeah but this is what like Neil
Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin and everyone
be looking at right now just a flashing
Neil Armstrong it's like I was Aldrin
and everyone I'm sorry there's the third
one who's just orbiting the moon while
everyone else is doing the moonwalk
sorry Mike I don't like it's pretty cool
like if you're doing your own thing all
right so yeah so we did 37 that la
program shareed not try again in a few
seconds so you can go through the whole
process of what they went through I
could see this like being something that
hey we're gonna get together as a group
and let's actually create like a
simulated launch event exactly make it
all the way to the moon now again can
you fail this mission like is this a
simulator or is this it's its actual
like yeah one sec it's the actual like
program itself so it's everything's
predetermined they you have like Apollo
11 Apollo 13 14 um though they have
those like flight plans if you want to
call it okay but they don't have like
the actual I have a question I pop it
over okay question dramatic I mean
there's a major error see operations
they're pushed up on it's its tongue I'm
not smart oh wait that OPR means
operator error operator error it's funny
because um b37
white one sec I'm just gonna do it one
second cuz I think I messed up III seven
down zero on that line check launch
launch
find out go yo okay cool need a touch
screen I know that's operating this with
a touchpad is really rough it actually
is I'm just like what am I doing wrong
they want us to take off well just I
love it too cuz like since it's all
analog like whenever the computer thinks
you have like computer activity light
light up and actually have that
simulator
as well mm-hmm so it's just like it
updates every two seconds because that's
as much as the computer then could
handle oh my gosh
I know all right so Henry yeah it's a
bit of a process to get the flight to
take place just a little bit you don't
want to mess up how much time would it
take to like would you actually do this
for the amount of time that it took for
them to get to the moon it's it's a
one-to-one ratio so really you need to
like like set aside the time yes sit
down and actually like get into this
like Dungeons &amp; Dragons people will like
party like something like this you could
absolutely like hey get your flight
suits ready folks set up a like a
theater and and actually make this
happen could be a lot of fun for those
who are into the nostalgia cool stuff so
cool beans as I mentioned cap 5 dot TV
slash AGC for the downloadable version
I'd like to see the version that is on
the Raspberry Pi because it's got some
killer graphics as well you've got some
3d stuff going on and then we've got the
JavaScript version a cat5 dot TV slash
AGC - Henry thank you for sharing that
with us
thanks for having me we've got to take a
really quick break when we come back
we're gonna be taking a look at wise
sense don't go anywhere
[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV we've been looking at the
Y's cam here on the show we've had it on
a couple of times because this is
something that's really really
intriguing I mean this is a smart
surveillance camera that's available for
only $20 u.s. there's also a pan tilt
zoom version that's just a little bit
more and it is it's a smart camera let
me actually switch over to my phone and
you see that that's what it looks like
in the app so cool hi so it works as a
surveillance camera that from the app I
can actually see what's going on from
anywhere no matter where I am as long as
I've got an internet connection there it
is and and you can have as many cameras
set up in the app as you like oh and
they'll just show up just like this
there you go so they've got our full
full studio yeah and this one here I
have in front of us because I wanted to
be able to actually physically interact
with this because today we're not
looking at the Y's cam but instead we're
looking at something called wise sense
it's such a tiny little box yeah this is
this is going to blow your mind this
takes the Y's cam to the next level and
adds motion sensor tracking it adds door
open and closed or you know those kinds
of features right within this box this
was so kindly sent to us by our viewer
Marsh man because we can't get them here
in Canada where our studio is located
but they're available in the United
States and now the wise cam itself is
available in Canada okay but wise since
so far is not so in this little tiny
tiny box and I've got I know I've got
the camera up on the screen I'm just
gonna switch over here but I have that
capability so that we can show how it's
going to how it's going to operate how
we can set it up so let's actually get
into this oh it's so exciting just so
small too so with this one
the little one and also like the pan
tilt - yeah yes okay yeah okay this will
work with either or or both but in each
box so we've got this is a little key to
activate it basically I think you could
probably get away with just using a
paper clip or something else that is
there okay this is the the hub that is
going to give you actual connectivity
for your devices okay so with these
sensors and I kind of want to get the
sensors out before I start talking all
about them but this is how tiny these
are Wow
they're magnetized so we've got a
motions motion sensor here mm-hmm
we've got a magnet sensor here which is
like a contact sensor let's get that
unwrapped there we are there so okay
just like that right put it on a window
ward yeah something window or a door
Magnus want to grab everywhere okay so
with this little hub what this does is
it plugs in to the usb on the back of
your wise cam or your wise camp an O and
the reason for that is if these devices
were to use your Wi-Fi we know Wi-Fi
traditionally drains the battery quite
quickly
oh yeah well these have just got itty
bitty built-in batteries you can't
change the battery but it's just like a
button cell battery okay and they say
that they'll last a year because you use
the hub and the hub takes the Wi-Fi
connectivity of the camera and extends
it to those using like a just a
low-level a low power consumption
transmission okay yeah so what I'm gonna
do in my app so I'm gonna switch over to
my phone here and in my app let's go
back and go back and I'm gonna click on
the dot-dot-dot at the top right and
we're gonna add a product there we go so
now we see there's wise cam wise cam pan
wise contact sensor wise motion sensor
wise bulb and let's just plug this into
the back of the camera
ah perfectly fits in look at that and
just wait for the light to turn blue
there we go
flashing blue and orange let's see if it
sees it you can do a camera alright so
now let's add a contact sensor refresh
okay so it's still connecting there it
is so it's the cameras I've named this
camera main entrance because that's
where normally sets and oh now it's
telling me to insert the pin to connect
so with one of these contact sensors I'm
gonna simply push that with this pin
that it came with okay okay Bridge is
connecting to the contact sensor
hmmm I think maybe I didn't wait for the
light to turn red let's try again
okay you got to hold it in a little
longer than oh there we go okay and
there's a little light
all right connections successful cool
there we go now there we go
give it a name we're gonna call this
door make sense
and finish my setup so now I see door is
closed so if I now take this and
separate them doors open doors oh that
is cool put them together doors closed
doors open doors closed so you can
actually set up different events
depending on the state of this
particular sensor that's so cool and
then we've also got so we've got two of
those and it came with a motion sensor
as well so the motion sensor as well as
the door sensors can be used to trigger
recording on the camera for example okay
on any of your cameras that are
connected member I mentioned how you can
have multiple cameras yeah they're all
set up oh yeah so you've got a door
sensor on your door and when that door
opens you can have all of the cameras
that are in that room automatically
start recording for example right or you
could have the sensor connected to this
camera but you know that the door that
is actually on camera is a part of a
different cameras field of view okay so
that can be the one that you specify is
the one that's gonna start recording Wow
yeah okay and you can get like an alert
or something it's like hey yes
absolutely so the app has push
notifications that's cool so you're
gonna see those and you can set that up
so that if you know if somebody opens
the door it'll notify you that's you can
set your notifications how you want them
to you know if you want it to be if the
door is open closed or left open so
think of your garage door well if you
leave your garage door open you want to
know about it but you don't necessarily
want to push notification every day
door opens and closes but if you leave
it open for more than 30 seconds or
whatever you set in the app you want to
know about that
that is smart mm-hmm I like it so now
let's take it one step further oh and
these devices the wise cents are now
compatible as well with if this then
so that means through some programming
you can set this up to trigger other
events as well in your smart home so
when you enter a room the motion sensor
from the wise sense picks you up and
turns on all the lights that's great or
when you open the door it automatically
turns on the lights as just a very
simple example that's all I can think of
because you know the smart home is so
new to me so when I get home my smart
home can start making me coffee because
you've got the little plugs that connect
your smart home together and whatever
you plug in to it whether it's coffee or
a light bulb I mean it's the same thing
as far as the smart home is concerned so
yeah you can you can have that trigger
things also too easy to set up I mean we
don't even have to get four boats with
our configuration but that's all there
is to it so this is just a like a
double-sided tape that we're gonna tape
on to like our door or whatever whatever
you want to put it on put it on the top
of your fridge so that if somebody opens
the fridge door it will set it off if
someone opens the freezer door it'll set
it off no more stealing cookies or
anything else from the fridge
dream also that is rather an interesting
perspective that I have because these
are quite obviously an FM transmitter
yeah every time I connect or disconnect
it I hear a bit of a static in my home
in my FM that's not earbuds it's like a
I feel like a superhero like I can't
stand chicken the lies that these were
sent to us yes when would we be able to
get them our dad I don't know but in
America they're readily available but
the company wise really has their focus
on build their brand in the United
States of America right now it does make
sense and they need to be able to
support it as well and they really want
to be able to support it well as soon as
you get across the border it becomes
very difficult for them to provide
support so so I can absolutely
understand that and so if you're in
Canada or somewhere else in the world
that is not you know you don't have
ready access to these make an American
friend that's that's certainly a good
idea but at the same time I mean they're
available they're gonna be available
you're gonna have like aftermarket sales
happening on Amazon and things like that
give it in time you'll probably pay a
little bit more these are only 20 bucks
for the box which comes with the four
pieces that you saw there including the
hub on the back of the camera so so
every one that you buy gets another hub
and then you can connect as many there
you go as you want to that so just keep
growing your network of securities so
there's so mean there's the security
aspect I love the the surveillance
aspect and being able to put these
cameras so cheaply anywhere and they and
they work very very well but they also
give you push notifications they let you
know if some if there's movement or
something's going on they even have
sound two-way communication audio the
pan tilt zoom you can control from
anywhere in the world as long as it's
got an internet connection so for the
price it's it's unbelievable what you're
getting but at the same time like it's
continuing to get better and better
exactly they've added a I to it so in a
firmware update it now has human
detection so it can tell whether the
movement is a dog or a human
huh so that's tapping into AI in order
to do that so that's that's an upgraded
feature so we're seeing it evolve and
grow and it's such an exciting time as
far as that tech goes so you can get one
a cat5 dot TV slash wise again if it's
not available in your area
do try to track it down it's a fantastic
product I've been really really pleased
with it
and I think you know you'll see online
that people are just like what can you
do with it so the surveillance aspect is
one thing but the smart home is now a
part of it as well so now we can start
triggering things that have nothing to
do with surveillance I want to have the
light turn on when I yeah sure yeah
motion sensor I mean if your if your
thermostat is not in a position where it
sees you when you walk in the door
because like a nest will do that and
come out of eco mode then having that
trigger an if this then that alum events
to come out of eco mode you can have it
at the back door or somewhere else where
the sensor can't read you normally right
or if there is no motion for a certain
amount of time or the temperature yeah
once I'm asleep you can turn it down
there you go no end to what you can do
with those so we'd love to hear from you
your interesting projects how you've
been able to use Y sense and even just
the Y's cam and wise camp an indeed and
let us know how you've been using those
to cool and thank you again to marsh man
for providing us with a wise sense to be
able to demo here today Sasha are you
ready to head over to the newsroom sure
if you're all set let's do it here are
the stories were covering this week in
the category 5 TV newsroom an Airbus
a350 software bug forces the airlines to
turn planes off and on again every 4 149
hours virgins Hyperloop one company has
signed a deal with the government of
Saudi Arabia to build a test track for
its futuristic transport concept yet
another crowdfunded game has become an
exclusive to the epic game store
MechWarrior 5 mercenaries release has
been delayed to December and
don't be on Steam as its backers
expected and you can run Android on
Nintendo switch and it runs entirely
from your SD card that's right the
built-in OS remains intact and you can
jump back and forth between os's by
simply rebooting these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
dot TV newsroom covering the week's top
tech stories
it's like Linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman
and here are the top stories for
following this week an Airbus a350
software bug forces the airlines to turn
planes off and on again every 149 hours
some models of the airliners still need
to be hard rebooted after exactly 149
hours despite warnings from the EU
Aviation Safety Agency or ESA first
issued two years ago in a mandatory air
were the air worthiness directive
reissued just over a week ago eásá urged
operators to turn their a350s off and on
again to prevent quote partial or total
loss of some avionics systems or
functions and both the revised directive
effective from July 26 exempts only
those new a3 59:40 ones which have been
met which had been modified had modified
software preloaded on the production
line for all other a350 not 9:40 once
operators still need to completely power
the airliner down before it reaches 149
hours of continuous power on time
concerning Lee the original directive
was brought in brought about in 2017 by
quote in-service events where a loss of
communication occurred between some
avionics systems and avionics and
networks and quote the impact of the
failures arranged from redundancy loss
to quote complete loss on a specific
function hosted on common remotes data
concentrator and core processing
input/output modules and quote in lay
terms this means at that prior to 2017
at least some a350s fly
passengers were suffering unexplained
failures of potentially flight critical
digital systems it is common for
airliners to be left powered on while
parked at airport gates so maintain errs
can carry out routine system checks
between flights especially if the
aircraft is plugged in to ground power
the remedy for the a350 941 problem is
straightforward install airbus software
updates for a permanent cure or switch
the aeroplane off and on again affected
airlines are Air France
American Airlines Delta Air Lines and
Lufthansa as well as air chat air China
and Taiwan's China Airlines hmm hmm Wow
so they don't actually say what the
critical failure may be wait Henry what
kind of failures could you have that
would lead to Boeing's not alone anymore
I'm just kidding you know um no it was
more critical there would be more pushy
about it like we saw with the 737 back
you like the toilet doesn't flush or
something yeah no problem yeah again
it's when you're talking about that kind
of stuff I'm guessing that it's pullin
on critical systems so like if it's just
like because they're things does your
digital nowadays yeah right especially
with Airbus planes because Airbus
believes the philosophy of the plane
knows how to fly well as Boeing thinks
that the pilot knows how to fly so in a
Boeing plane you can normally stall the
plane as a pilot but an Airbus plan you
can't because it's all electronic right
like they trust the plane more so to
hear that they have like such a
technical issue on an Airbus plane is
kind of concerning right because it's
just it's more electronically controlled
than a standard Muin plan right but
again everything's fly-by-wire nowadays
everything's electronically controlled
so hopefully it's nothing too critical
yeah like controls or anything but well
the the other question is how easy is it
to turn a plane off and on like is it
something you could conceivably just do
preemptively before any flight yeah it's
not hard to do but as we saw with
today's earlier story does take time for
instruments to know where they are you
have to put in your like exact
coordinates again you have to do
all that stuff so in an industry where
time is money yeah it adds time right so
why not just you keep certain systems on
if it's a quick turnaround then go mmm
but yeah so don't be silly update your
planes
yeah because I'm thinking like you're
you're talking delayed flights exactly
you're sitting on a tarmac having to
reboot the computer and go through all
the preflight checks and everything else
right but there are times when the plane
doesn't like seem to be doing anything
now I know that it is but it doesn't
seem to be like when it's getting
de-iced through the winter it's sitting
on the tarmac and it's just being
sprayed could you then power it off and
power back on and that money no like
this the systems that they're talking
about it sounds like their flight
critical systems so going on my point
from before again like the Geo like the
gyros and stuff at each gate they have
to assign like geo exact coordinates so
like your inertial units you can't turn
those off because then you'd have to go
back and like read it and put the
numbers so like if you're in like an
iced in Airport where you're like
sitting down there for like two or three
hours they wouldn't be able to turn it
off right now Henry I've only ever flown
a drone how do they take an Airbus and
flip it over and turn I guess just
update like the software just update
your software yeah is there any cost
like do they like is what it is OP them
from updating the sideways point it's
almost like updating your iPad Windows
XP the main issue is that in aviation
everything's so scrutinized rights away
out in the for example we have to be
approved in the FAA in the States like
every single update right so um and
Europe's really hard about that as well
as same here in Canada like they have to
approve each and every update by the
government whoever starting the
authority right so I did notice that
Canadian airlines weren't on the list of
the affected airlines does that mean we
just don't have these planes yeah we
just don't have those models oh right so
like um yeah for example WestJet only
has smaller planes right so
yeah we're safe guys I just wondered
maybe we weren't affected because we did
the update but now we just don't have
virgins Hyperloop one company has signed
a deal with the government of Saudi
Arabia to build a test track for its
futuristic transport concept the
Hyperloop concept involves a pressurized
pod with a vehicle carrying passengers
or cargo up to ten times faster than
current rail a 35 kilometer track will
be built alongside a research and
development facility and manufacturing
plant north of Jeddah some remain
skeptical that Hyperloop travel can
become a reality
virgin Hyperloop one said the technology
could reduce a journey from rider to
Jetta to 76 minutes compared with more
than 10 hours currently Wow the company
showed off a pod traveling at over 100
kilometers an hour or a 62 miles per
hour in a 500 meter vacuum tube in
Nevada in July 2017 meanwhile Elon Musk
has been running an annual competition
at his SpaceX headquarters to test the
limits of the technology this year's
contest was won by an engineering team
from a Technical University of Munich
afterwards mr. musk tweeted the 2020
event would be run in a new 10 kilometer
curved vacuum tunnel Oh exciting yeah I
think it's going to happen I know that
there are people who are skeptical I
feel like fast travel is it's gonna be
hot right like because there are so many
cities like densely populated cities and
people want to get from one to the other
there's gonna be so much time and
attention put into this that it will be
a thing that'll happen in our lifetime
like by 2020 as we've seen in the past
though I think it just comes down to
with the speed if something is going to
go wrong it's going to go catastrophic
ly wrong right and I think that's the
danger or the hesitation in a lot of
cases because it's not a small thing
it's like an airplane like it's like
it's devastating if an air
goes down I don't devastating if one of
these things crashes right but there is
no mode of transportation that we do
that doesn't have some level walking in
the winter like you there is no mode of
transportation that can't potentially
hurt you right so Hyperloop yes because
of the speed could kill you faster put a
dark spell power is riskless and we all
drive those so we might as well cut down
the time to travel from one place to
another I know that there are risks but
they'll be so scared of the bad press of
having an injury that they're gonna
prevent that as as much as they can
yeah I think I think we're gonna be
surprised Robbie because there's this
huge push of like green transportation
and that's true to know I know I'm a
hypocrite as I'm a I'm like oh save the
environment meanwhile I'm flying
airplanes at but at the same time it's
just like yeah it's dangerous but they
might start off with like cargo first
and just say hey yeah let's use it for
mail or just-in-time shipping and then
they can expand a passengers from there
but yeah it's like a green way to send
people from Montreal to Toronto or New
York New York to an unbelievably short
amount of time really good point with
the cargo okay so there are places what
are they called like are they called
urban deserts where there's no food in
that particular like no fresh food in
that part of the city could you imagine
if they were just if they had hyper
loops that could just like truck and
Masum out so and then by truck I mean
Hyperloop pod in patan hot in like fresh
produce and and it would happen so
quickly and efficiently wouldn't cost
anything to feed these urban centers
that really rely on nothing but frozen
food cuz space is an issue as well right
but the thing is that they're it's
expensive because like they're digging
the tunnels underground but it also
saves space above ground right so you
don't have to build another highway you
can actually put stuff you need there
instead of a roadway hmm so that can
also save space too I like that what do
you guys think I'm eager to see what
what comes of it yeah yet another
crowdfunded game has become an exclusive
to epic game store MechWarrior five
mercenaries release has been delayed to
December and it won't be on Steam as
backers had expected it's becoming a
familiar story as what was a crowdfunded
game expected to be available everywhere
has become an epic game store exclusive
for the next 12 months that means it
won't be available on Steam despite many
who have already pre-ordered it doing so
with the assumption that it would be
it's hardly the first time that that's
happened though as Epic continues to
sign up as many games as possible to
keep them off steam as frustrating as it
is the anger with which PC gamers have
treated the trend has been extreme even
by gamer standards but epic shows no
sign of backing down and maintains it's
the best way to establish their online
store on their blog developer piranha
games has said that they'll refund
anyone that isn't happy about the news
as long as they get in contact by
September 1st the other big news story
for the game though is that it's been
delayed from its original release date
of September 10th to December 10th of
this year that said a closed beta is now
planned for November and anyone anyone
that's pre-ordered it will get automatic
access to several of the final games
practice missions that's interesting it
almost feels like they're giving it more
time like okay epic has bought it and
now they're gonna put it through its
paces before it's released to make sure
that it's up to epic standards how many
people do you think are gonna be so
upset about this news hold on it'll ask
for a refund right unless you want to
opt into your early access but your
early access is still later than the
original release date yeah what did this
take away from the funding of a like of
developing it beyond from September
through December when they see how many
people want a refund
yeah if there was a mask you funding is
so tough there won't be a mask gamer
movement there will
but the big thing of epic right now is
that they have the money to support it
yeah and the main issue with epic versus
steam is that epic is letting the game
developers get more money out of it
right so let's say if steam charges ten
percent commission but when they sell a
game epic would only slight charge five
percent right so there's an inclination
of yeah we should go to epic but again
epic doesn't have all the same good
features everything else that steam does
so a lot of gamers are angry because
epic is stealing cool down code stealing
again both says argument their games
because there's a lot of Kickstarter
games there's a lot of these games like
I think Phoenix point Shenmue all these
other games that we're gonna be on Steam
we're marketed as being on Steam but now
epic has paid them out pay them out and
now they're only going to be epic
exclusive or epic exclusive for X amount
of time right so it's really sucky for
the players right um if it matters if
you like steam or not but it just both
steam and epic you can but there's a as
there's been a lot of controversy about
epic fell like there's been a lot of in
the sense that a it doesn't have a lot
of basic features so like when you log
into steam obviously have a games but
there's like a lot of social market
community things but with epic game
launcher there's been some like security
issues again don't quote me on this you
can google it yourself but um there's
been like a lot of controversy about
that right because with epic store they
don't have a lot of infrastructure with
that that being said it's still a new
idea right it's still a new store which
is great for the consumer you think
because more competition better pricing
right but the issue is that steam isn't
doing another thing to counteract this
right
if steam wants to win all they have to
do is lure the Commission cost of
selling a game to like 5% oh right
and the owners of epic has have actually
said look if you lower your costs we'll
stop stealing games if you believe them
or not oh that's your choice right but
it's it's literally come down to that so
it just it's mixed feelings right now
throughout the
I'm fairly new to steam I only ended up
getting steam when I got my vr Butthead
takes a br yeah so that's when I was
introduced to steam but I don't know
about epic at all I don't know I I don't
know a lot about the politics between
the two I didn't I just expected well if
you want to play a game it's fun just
play a game right and like nothing says
you can't enjoy epic like it has playing
appositives but again as I move abayas
Linux steam etc I first see myself but
again if that doesn't matter to you if
you still want to play your awesome game
on a different platform power to you do
that right but whose epic friend Wes
like epic is run by epic and why because
like there's a what is it there's unity
and then there's uh what's the other
game Unreal Engine yeah epic owns Unreal
Engine oh so like it's the same company
so it's like the same launcher so it's
just like I dabbled in like Unreal
Engine for a bit it's like the same
launcher so it's just like you have your
game creation engine and then you have
like your epic game store and then you
have all these other things but it's
just that they're swimming in the fort
night money right now not sure yes yeah
and part of that is we don't want to
give away our Commission that's the
thing right yes
steam steam isn't doing their thing but
they don't really have to do anything
right now because there's a lot of there
they still have a large user base let's
say we like our market we like our
everything else right right so brand
loyal brand loyalty comment below if it
affects you or how you feel about it
personally I'm in different stores a
store
yeah install either or or both or well
yeah the thing I would say about it is I
am on Steam and I wouldn't I wouldn't
have thought to go elsewhere at all I
didn't know yeah but if another game
says you need epic then game stores
right all right hey we do it anyways
right you have origins steam good old
games
twitch well you just have more software
on your computer that's all there you go
yeah speaking of games you can run
Android on Nintendo switch and it runs
entirely from your SD card that's right
the built-in OS remains intact and you
can jump back and forth between OS
by simply rebooting the Nintendo switch
isn't a device that we would usually
associate with Android development
however thanks to the hard work by XDA
senior member
Langer Haynes and XD a junior member
bylaws any hackable Nintendo switched
typically devices sold before July 2018
can now we'll boot a lineage OS 15.1
directly from the SD card lineage OS
15.1 on the Nintendo switch has
basically everything you've come to
expect from lineage OS you get all of
your basic Android features support for
Google services and even support for
native Nvidia shield applications that
means you can play half-life and portal
on-the-go and even make use of GeForce
now if you're part of the beta the joy
cons and Nintendo pro controller work
without a hitch
keyboard and mouse works when docked
pretty much anything that can work will
work it's a spectacular port of Android
and one that's well worth setting up if
you have a spare SD card installing
Android on your Nintendo switch does not
touch the main OS installed on it so you
don't need to worry about breaking
anything if you want to get started
check out the switch root lineage OS
15.1 thread we've hotlinked at cat 5 dot
TV slash switch switch Android 6 which
Android cut off a little bit on the
teleprompter but I knew it because I
wrote it that is too cool absolutely
awesome I mean you feel kind of limited
by what the switch provides but it's
fantastic I mean the kids love it and it
does everything they need it to do but
to be able to take it and turn it into a
tablet at the same time now all of a
sudden a take your tablet with you take
your switch with you it's just all one
device that's great perfect I love that
you could just do it with the SD card
you don't have to do anything to the
built-in storage
yeah there's no risk at all anything you
can do it oh there's always risk we'll
find a way to break it
but you know that's cool very good stuff
big thanks to Ray W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
a Terry Bailey Brown thank you so much
for being here with us this week we've
got to take a quick break don't go
anywhere
now Ashley you remember back on let's
see I made a note episode 557 so this is
going back about a year and a bit we
looked at a paper because we wanted to
know where a paper tablets actually a
viable thing to you know should I buy
one should I use one and we decided yes
I immediately fell in love absolutely
and we all have them we all use them now
and we save a lot of trees by using them
and the company that that we were
reviewing is a company called new yes
and what's really really neat about them
what I really have learned to love about
them is that they they listen to the
reviews online they they read the
reviews on Amazon and they and they make
improvements based on those reviews so a
lot of the things that we had said and
they actually implemented into some of
their newer products and so yeah and
moving forward they they have since sent
us a couple of extra tablets and said
look we've implemented some of these
changes we'd like you to re review just
to be able to show people how things
have progressed in the past year so here
we are it's 2019 and you can go to cap
five dot TV / E paper in order to look
at any of these devices now this one is
pretty neat because it's about the size
of well smaller than a smartphone right
you are working in an industry where
maybe you can tell the folks at home
what it's what what limitation you have
when it comes to digital note-taking
I am not allowed to bring my phone with
me at all into the building not allowed
not allowed and it makes sense because
there's patient confidentiality and you
can't have any sort of leaked
information you I can't disclose who's
in the building in any way sure so let
alone be tracked by your path exactly so
because of that I've had to revert back
to pen and paper right whereas typically
I would have my phone and I would just
make notes
mm-hmm so what's really really neat now
is here's an ePaper tablet that will fit
in the same space as your phone yes but
is not a phone so we've had the comment
well why don't you just get a stylus for
your phone well in your case that's not
acceptable
I cannot it won't won't do it so let's
actually you know it's it's not much of
an unboxing but let's actually open it
and and see what has changed here so the
thing is with these this boasts that it
will save up to about a hundred thousand
sheets of paper that's a lot of paper
that's a lot of paper and the device
itself here's the next thing the device
itself is recyclable yes now this is oh
and this is just an environmental
statement from the company welcome to
making the world paperless our mission
is simple very cool I already really
like the concept so this this is just
pocket-sized yeah it is what it is it's
got the stylus built-in and let's give
it a try oh that is nice I don't know if
you guys can see how vibrant that is now
these are not illuminated ePaper is not
an illuminated type of tablet it's not
like your phone but you can see that in
our lighting it's a little bit it's like
a piece of paper yeah let me I'm gonna
jump over here to our other camera
transition and just yeah and I'm gonna
actually just there we've got some
b-roll now so this is what it looks like
and I'm just gonna get right in here and
like look at how vibrant this is I can't
write upside down in sideways you can do
it there you go
there it's quite a bit bright brighter
than it was and I say bright it's not
luminance Ashley you're setting off
there we go it detects faces until it
focuses on you and then I pushed this
button down here and it clears so there
you go
that dad did anthing this is really but
you can see I mean it really does look
very very good okay so one of the things
that this pocket one lacks that I think
it should have because this is going in
my pocket it's a very simple device it's
very economical device as well but yep
being as simple as it is it lacks a lock
switch also you can't like gently
scratch things so you can't accidentally
clear the screen
so if I've recorded some notes true
right so I've got my notes all made out
blah blah blah and then I put it in my
pocket and I accidentally hit that
button it's an instant clear yeah so you
still have to be very very careful with
these ones because they don't have the
lock now the larger one they have the
lock switch which I like she almost
would want to keep something to protect
it also like in your pocket like a
folder right right because say I say I'm
in with a with somebody and I need to
make notes that I don't see report to
the nurse right right and then be like
oh I cleared my screen right you
wouldn't want to put it in your back
pocket where you might sit on the switch
or something like that but if you have
like a shirt pocket shirt pocket yeah
that would work or yeah you can feel the
button it would take a little bit of
pressure to push yeah okay so right and
actually you wouldn't accidentally write
on it with friction in your pocket
because it's it's got like a beveled I
put it even right on with your
fingernail it does yeah yeah this is
awesome
the screen has improved a hundred times
on the little one last time we were
reviewed it about a year ago I wasn't
too impressed with the screen on the
small one it's absolutely like that is
greatly improved so well done new yes
make sure you check those out if you
want a pocket-sized ePaper tablet they
are at cat5 dot TV / e paper and save
some paper recycled paper they used
recycled paper printed on recycled paper
good job guys
and open the incidentally it's still
recyclable again just careful just keep
reusing keep reusing this is
category-five technology TV it's been
great having you here we are out of time
but I thank you for joining us thanks to
these two for being here and I hope you
have a wonderful week before we go I'll
just remind you we are on Twitter
category 5 TV I'm on Twitter is at
Robbie Ferguson you can also find us on
YouTube both category 5 technology TV
and Linux tech show and Linux tech show
being the one where you can just get
little snippets of the show which saves
you having to watch the full hour if you
just want the quick snippets and you can
find links to all different means of
watching category 5 TV through our
website which is simply that category 5
dot TV thanks everybody see you again
[Applause]
