[Music]
welcome to the world of crypto sand
welcome to the cryptic corner this week
we had again a stable market not not
huge change in the overall market cap so
from 266 billion we went up to two
hundred seventy two billion but again if
we sought after those seven days you
will see some significant changes now
Kia V chain went up by seventy five
percent in just seven days or Arliss 57
percent in total we have got over 30
coins that went higher than 15 percent
and on the downside we've got only four
coins that lost more than fifteen
percent so some interesting dynamic
happening in this market as usual of
course now this week I attended the
Cardinal summit and when you attend the
summit then this is how it will look
like because it has to be virtual you
have got the tracks where you can go and
listen to the presentations you have got
the exhibit exhibition halls waking oh
and even talk to exhibitors they have
got some people on the other side of the
computer and you can interact with them
and then the agenda and this is
something interesting in regards to
Cardno because it highlights the
difference between something like like a
theorem and Cardinal the Adonis you can
see here is full of academic people that
did the presentations and and in you see
doctor doctor doctor professor and so on
and E theorem is is more the environment
of geek so fantastic programmers world
best programmers that are coding on the
theorem blockchain and coming up with
new ideas of what to do like the d5
market just isolate
development and in card and oh they're
coming from another angle they're coming
from the intellectual angle from the
theoretical angle and that's what I also
took them much longer to go live rather
than like a theorem they went life very
quickly in that sense so it's
interesting to see which one of those
two block chains will have the upper
hand
long term
now I'm going into detail of what has
happened now I want to show you some
presentations that I really liked this
one here is called beef chain which is a
supplier management or supply chain
management protocol together with a
legislator from Wyoming and it
highlights difficulties that exist in
this market like here the Salmonella
breaks out in one of those factories the
recall can be really devastating yeah
like here peanut Corporation of America
that company doesn't exist anymore
because of the salmonella outbreak and
the executives were handed 28 years of
prison and so it's important to really
have an end-to-end tool that you can
rely on and that's what they developed
on the Cardinal block chain now and I
hope they one day they will also do that
on the medical side because I heard that
percent of all medication that you can
buy is fake or substandard and so such a
tool would be fantastic also in the
medical sector
next is onboarding so I mean in the
Western world we don't have huge
problems in getting access to banks or
loans in other countries like here this
is Africa for example it looks
completely different but how do you do
that you need to make it in a way that
it is secure and that's exactly what
they developed here with a project
called Attalla prison and it's a big
deal because it simply will open up
opportunities like lending payments
insurance banking so in total they
calculate over 400 billion globally in
defy payments and in Africa that could
benefit from such a tool it's just to
make sure that you're in a secure way
are able to access these finance tools
in this case yeah so it's a fantastic
product for the unbanked next one is
Cardno aims to be extremely
decentralized at the moment it's a
little bit decentralized but if you want
to have something very decentralized
you need to offer also tools in regards
to the governance and they develop this
year with on the Cardinal platform and
how the government's look like it looks
like it's fantastic and it's well
thought through so it's worth taking a
look at there so how is the voting done
what can you do with your coins and so
on then part of the decentralization you
will be also a fund and this she'd
remember probably I fund which was
created by Apple to get apps onto into
the App Store garden was doing a similar
thing now so they launched fund with
over 30 million US dollars in it already
to fund developers coming up with new
ideas and will be then the chain
governance decides whether those
developers will get those grants or not
and they oh there will also be linked to
deliverables which I find fairly
attractive so that's a new way of
governance of a company or in this case
a project and the last one that I saw is
also that coinbase custody which is just
the department of coinbase will support
secure stating secure staking of the
Cardinal the ADA in future so in total
some really interesting developments on
the Cardinal platform which I found
interesting because it will shape the
industry as we are in so that's it from
me this week I hope you enjoyed it and I
hope you learned something and please
let us know if you've got any questions
so thank you very much for watching bye
bye thank you Robert just a reminder
that we're not providing financial
advice but only sharing what's happening
in the cryptocurrency market
always remember that the cryptocurrency
markets are ever-changing and always
volatile so you should only spend what
you can
or Toulouse
