welcome to the category-five community
coffee break Thursday March 26 make -
thank you take - Robbie is on site at
Studio a lodging internet-capable being
cold and getting installed awesome you
know you know painters should be there
to paint over the the spackle job
they've done after removing the
wainscoting so it's coming together
coming together hopefully hopefully he
has the keys to this time well he's in
where babies in it's good he sent a
picture this morning so he is in nice
food what had to hear it I'm sorry my
internet just went down and came back up
again so yeah my dad sorry but a lot of
that going on it's been pretty stable
all week until until today this morning
it's just been a bit fragile yeah
alright so what you got in the way of
coffee I'm empty
this is a coffee break come on I'm
waiting for my tech to jump up on my
yeah hey is she still doing okay oh good
yeah she's very loud though she's very
vocal yeah some cats are like that I had
to go to him to get some fresh litter I
have a self sleeping litter box and had
to go and get it another another box of
litter for it and they have catch for
adoption near and I was I was so ready
to take one of them home but I know that
my character
would not have any part of that yeah
she's a she's a one-house she's a one
cat three screws the boss of the of the
house she is you when any part of that
so yeah definitely yeah definitely not
gonna not gonna do that but such a
gorgeous ain't but I think was a Persian
or something
and she was just she was just gorgeous
she was just gorgeous
okay Hill in mind having an a pet now
that I've been getting allergy shots um
I've been doing really really well with
animals she doesn't want to come up yeah
I used to have the birds 25 years ago my
sister got had to and I bought to myself
and then we discovered that I had three
females and she had two male small is
not easy to tell the difference so this
one and three years later I ended up
with eight birds friends of mine cage
did your parents never tell you about
the birds and the beach when a boy bird
and a go bird get together
[Laughter]
I'll bet that is one of the stories that
I have never actually heard that story
but everyone is using that everyone know
what they mean but I think that the most
people have actually not heard the story
but everyone know what I mean which is
low blow you need Robbie here - hmm keep
the keep the conversation go how long do
you think he'll be before he gets a get
two guys online no is he not telling ya
oh boy okay he said that he might be
lucky it's like the lid that was half an
hour ago
yeah I had a chance to check this code
because I'm on my work computer so I'm
using the phone here but I went on
during working hours I've only got the
work computer running so mm not using
the the home computer at all not that
the cat cares should be more than happy
to to mess with me even when I'm working
as you can tell so yeah I've got them
let's see if I can do this my work
computer is right there okay anyway to
sleep now here's something interesting I
got this computer some time ago now when
I joined the company it's an HP
EliteBook there is no insert key on the
keyboard
what's up with that the hell have you
had your keyboard bill or your laptop
does it have an insert key this laptop
is actually a month old for me but it's
a bit too Dell
let's see for tudela probably has a
pretty standard keyboard yeah yeah it
does have an insert key but I cannot
imagine why HP thought that we don't
need an insert key why would anybody use
need surgery clearly they did gave w us
at a VI - editor and face no exactly I
would use the insert key on both UNIX
and on the mainframe which is what I'm
coding on now cobol and all that fun
stuff and the three keys that I am use
regularly yeah if it's an
eske did the insert key and there's a
scroll lock know the adness cistern
record speak because when they examine
the graphical desktop in a Linux system
freezes you can use that force
application to shut down oh okay but
once you started doing that you get will
displace will never again again access
to the keyboard yeah you have to either
restart the graphical display or you
have to restart the entire machine but
there it's just yanking power yeah the
the biggest one I remember is ctrl alt
backspace that resets the yeah it's
supposed to reset the whole x windows
yeah environment that's the only one
that I recalled isn't there one of the
hypervisors that you use ctrl alt insert
instead of Control Alt Delete
exactly it boggles my mind
I can't say what did I do I just went
like being a regular USB Logitech
keyboard I saw a picture pretending to
be here maybe maybe he's coming in
through the new internet studio II
wouldn't that be something and would be
a hello we have to be very very quiet
look at that how's everybody doing we're
doing great
with trailer I got really change the
view on my screen tokens briefings
Robbie I was just looking to see I had
to change the view on my screen so we
could see us you were room
I was just the menteng the lack of I
don't know if you've ever experienced
this but just got a fairly recent HP
EliteBook laptop there is no insert key
on the laptop what's up with there yeah
no no no and I was saying that there
clearly doesn't use VI well with the I
don't specifically made the insert key
because you can use you can use the i
key to insert because if it's two
different modes right one for for
entering text and one for actually
controlling VI so so what's going on
there rubbing oh yeah absolutely I don't
have a computer yeah I can't take you
through because there's people working
but is it it's a big mall and so it's
like just a bunch of offices and take
you in the office because there's
somebody working installing the it ok
that's the main studio skyline up there
and painters just coming in itself
making progress
oh very good yeah so there is like the
skylight anyway happening here no I said
it
happening oh it is yes yeah sure it's so
you know I guess anything should be done
tomorrow sounds like yeah so cool and
then we'll be on track for Saturday
magnificent yeah yeah I don't have a
coffee though yeah but Tim Johnson's
right outside yeah but it just got Wi-Fi
so that's we're doing yes it's very good
yeah that's it that's a nice surprise
Robin to see the studio yeah I know
you're glad to have a key for sure I
haven't got a key yet
oh she's checking the locks
so Robbie yeah can you read this but
read it he's on his phone I doubt it nah
you can barely read it on the computer
named Mary Joy boxing unfortunately the
recording stopped by there yes it is Wow
buuuut and he has to know I have a model
100 and a 102 and this does it have a
Tandy address sticker on it anywhere
that says Barrie Ontario not sorry
what's it
I see Robbie's wearing a hat
[Music]
yes-yes-yes injuries I remember those
Robbie be the only stylish ones yeah
well I don't Cupra some way hold on let
me see if I can find it so Robbie takes
to do excellent today yes sir so and
literally just got internet so wasn't
sure if I was gonna be able to check in
need to have a of course I like it
so so why are you Robbie sorry where are
you
this is the entrance to studio eat right
here oh I'm gonna go down against Ellis
hey you're not gonna show us oh I got
workers in here so but I'll peek in the
back entrance here and just finish oh no
no no let's see it in the recording
happy to audio I never knew
and have a headset or anything so it's
pretty hard to hear anything all right
think of a loud up there you go
so is it pretty good today yeah sure
good I'm waking up yeah that's pretty
good good good so what time is it in
Australia no idea because I mean I'm in
central time zone in the u.s. yes that's
true I believe it's something like 3
o'clock in the morning over there I've
been in the States more than 20 years
now so all right so it's I go back every
night yeah it's 321 in the morning over
there and they're still on daylight
savings I think their daylight savings
shuts down early mid-april something
like that so date daylight savings
isn't that summer time yeah correct it
just coming out of summer now there's no
games are reversed that's correct
because that's when their that's when
their summer is their season to reverse
right yeah so 525 in the evening yes yes
nice so you're done with work yeah
[Applause]
so I made the only one not in that yeah
that's correct
you know where I am thanks guys
I have to run because Internet installer
needs to chat with me I'm probably lose
my connection so have a great day
everyone
are going to Robbie like tight theory so
I'm not
see you tomorrow I think I'm gonna go
ahead and drop us well cuz I've got I
got plenty to do here also so I enjoyed
the chat guys yeah have a good afternoon
and hopefully catch you tomorrow maybe
I'll have some battery charge batteries
charged and I can maybe do something
useful with the shells off or something
yeah I can do all right in any case at
the end of 40 minutes after this stream
stock so I guess we have at least 5
minutes left
yeah warning hasn't come yet now I
haven't seen anything you know well
anything else you know any other big
plans for the rest of the day no catch
up on a few TV serious and I have a
friend who has a big ear plex server I
have watching a few episodes a day from
the server in addition to a few of my
own so I have maybe a thousand different
TV series on 8 900 the movies to select
from
that's cool so I got a I have a ton of
online training so I'll probably be
taking a nap in about an hour
yeah but my choice I'm gonna reload year
ago with networking on my Windows
machine for some reason I'm told Windows
10 on monitoring would have bloody you
use the network but they're going to
windows 9 and upgrade it work but
totally wearing why doesn't work unknown
figure out anybody god no I did yeah
yeah they they say that they're more
than technology on computers came to
help us solve our problems but do you
often get computers or the networks are
the problem so it's just a new set of
problems
yeah yeah Twila time to think of it they
won't quit hear that wind quadratic in
value men determine that today we'd like
to win the Technic I really well with
the N word on we can work on your own
window to the boundary so a Peter how
long have you had that in the hole in
our wind it's in that I'm going to die
the Judith came down I go up I should
and really mean to literally a theater
to get done to put there that 2001 I'm
good well I could not go out I've not
read in every day to look after me and
my wife it was relaxers nobody behind
that wall again were they probably a lot
of he everybody that got mental problems
I think once I could call me show and do
anything with any insurance or need to
go anywhere
so I'm they tuck it on into the moment
our country mobile in Canada we cannot
repeat repeat acting shown routing help
you come to exercise position in your in
your epic average very expensive much of
the ecology work from our base camp on
gradient which wrote a blog about my
moving avoid the car - nothing - comes
out in everyone you know Ln which can be
eight is a Catherine from Pune very good
but I go out because I like it pretty
much our try again we done drama Cunha
they told me that they drink and it's a
kind man to tell me that not is a anyway
but on their own Martin now yeah yeah no
this is one of the big differences
between the most of Europe and the
United States is that in Europe if
something happens to you you're not
going broke because of health care bills
you are paying up to just a small fee if
I wrong
but yeah
so we don't need insurance are better in
Ireland it's much it's a lot of the same
yeah yeah yeah yeah we are painting in
silent women you know interfering with
windows paper rightful masters in
Ireland where about about the white in
the border they made derry/londonderry
from that pool she was 34 the amount
away
that sounded like a first generation
Star Trek communicator so now I come out
drunk or on drugs and clean on our water
in fear like ramune Michael Gallagher
because I ate it on there I'll be going
off sick I know I'm on and I can I think
we're better you are you I mean two
hours and off of the truant I'm in the
middle of Murray State yeah so I'm in
the middle of Norway you have their song
and Trenton fjord and as far inland as
you can cover about it's about where I
am
I'm taking notes because not one who are
in the Caribbean the ocean flacco French
without till show which is either or
either could you find oil in Java we
don't know that our beautiful thank you
guys everything I think on employers I'm
like mama joy and
and possibly one of my father's life is
an old Marilyn Geneva 1500 but we've got
the same so 9 we go figure out the
connection between 1500 and 1700 1770 do
believe in God we can't we can't prove
it was the name is filled with no way
detecting long-range rocket uh continue
filming show there you think there's a
little neighborhood catcher in London
I've seen it yeah but they could be a
lecture or not I'm not gonna die out of
the changing up you know think of really
bizarre things not being run here and
trading relations over in Ireland even
worse when the 1917 happens there when
the FDA revolution got a couple of turns
in the era when traveling I can refactor
and Republic and allotted up in Dublin
brought Los Angeles a difficult retraced
her mother and letters of mine put some
of my saintly Harry
- Talia Latino go far away and unify at
all my younger brother Cato
we got relations get where Ireland as it
gets where in your very far away again
about 30 miles away
Gary a place big one Oh Nick nice paint
job on the wall behind you so real 4G
coverage here yeah it's the same in my
memory
well gang it looks like we need to wrap
this up yeah this third time is probably
almost over
so again Robbie Robbie is on site in
Studio e working with Internet guys
getting a good table in you want to
still want to help with the Kickstarter
cat5 TV slash kick we're at the we're in
the home stretch that we should be
moving in this weekend as shiny good -
should be good in a couple of weeks
hopefully we can get the show back on
and get going all right guys it's been
fun yeah yeah we'll see you again
tomorrow all right
