covering the week's top textbooks with
slight Linux bias the latest Intel
crosstalk vulnerability is now patched
in Debian gnu/linux sent OS Linux as
well as Red Hat Enterprise Linux systems
the recently found Hardware
vulnerability known as crosstalk was
discovered by researchers from view
university Amsterdam in some Intel
processors the flaw could allow local
attackers or virtual machine guests to
expose sensitive information like
cryptographic keys from other users or
VMS already patched in all supported
Ubuntu releases the vulnerability has
also now been patched in Debian Buster
and stretch plus sent OS 6 &amp; 7 as well
as Red Hat Enterprise Linux version 6
and 7 to mitigate the vulnerability in
their systems users will have to install
the latest Linux kernel and Intel
microcode updates which are now
available in the stable software
repositories of their distributions
although Debian stretch users must
enable the non free repository to get
the patch make sure you reboot your
systems after installing the new Linux
kernel and Intel micro code updates
