we are looking at the GNU image
manipulation program now we've looked at
this in the past and Sasha you mentioned
hey this is like when we looked at white
balance and fixing right the colors
exactly there was like a series of like
pictures of bathrooms and bedrooms had
white we selected the white and then we
yeah so now we're not having white well
white that white balance is a fantastic
tool for photographers and for editors
you have to have something white in the
shot
yeah and I've suggested that what I will
do is I'll actually take like an
eight-and-a-half by 11 piece of white
paper which I know is as close to white
as I'm gonna get and I'll put it kind of
off to the corner of the shot as I'm
taking the picture if I know that
there's there's nothing in this photo
that's gonna be white right or I'll just
make sure that there is something that's
going to be white but what happens if
you're in a place that doesn't have any
white is there such a place there's got
to be name one the forest the deep dark
depths of the forest
yes I guess like if it's a little bit a
jar like there's internal picture on say
a car or something that's got like a
black and gray interior yeah right you
know you know what's gonna happen there
and we learned this the last time we
looked at white balances what happens
there Jeff is that your camera is going
to interpret the bright light coming in
from the window as white yes because it
has no white to interpret so it's gonna
say well this is as close to white as I
can get that's my white balance and then
everything is off yeah the colorization
is off and if you're not aware of that
tutorial that we taught how to then
correct that make sure you click on the
links which I'll post below if you're
watching this on any of our online
platforms if you're watching this on
cable TV or another platform where you
just don't have access to those links
please visit our web site category five
dot TV and do a quick search for GIMP
which is short for the GNU image
manipulation program and that's going to
help you to find those tutorials and
there are loads of them right we've done
a lot so today we're gonna look at hey
what happens if yeah great suggestions
in the chat room maybe you two can keep
track of what's going on in the chat
room Norman five makes a couple of good
ones
oh yeah caves and tunnels caves and
tunnels they don't have white yeah
that's true yeah if you're driving
through a tunnel and you happen to snap
a picture where's your white balance
coming dad not taking pictures at night
taking pictures at night what where's
your work stars the moon I hear stuff
imagines my name is white and B not if
you get a Blood Moon whoa what happens
then
then your Blood Moon just looks white
[Laughter]
just like I swear to you this was a
Blood Moon when I took it yeah yeah but
what happens when you don't have
anything to white balance off of well
let's actually get into it so thank you
for that little lead in the segue so
cheesy come on Jeff that was a pro I'm
gonna head over to pixels calm I love
pixels calm because it's like a it's a
free service that allows you to grab
stock photos for how much Sasha how much
money's are we gonna spend today no
money is today no money's today just
throwing stock photos at yeah absolutely
free I mean if you've got a blog or
anything at all jump on to pixels calm
this is a free service for you to be
able to grab some stuff I'm gonna do a
quick search for warehouse and I'm doing
this because I know a warehouse is
probably a place where there's not
necessarily gonna be a lot of white some
of these shots yeah like here's a good
example jeff of that dark shot where the
window has been interpreted as white
right but it's very under saturated it's
very black and white so you know I yeah
I could adapt that and touch it up but
you see what I mean those windows are
what it's thinking is white yeah right
now this shot I mean obviously they're
all white there yeah there's a lot of
light so the cameras in air things while
is making white let's make it look like
a hospital room so that's not a good
example either but some you feel like I
feel like we should probably look up
like a tunnel or Katie what about the
one in the bottom corner there's like no
light there
well that's no light but what we're
looking for specifically is like that
room that is missing white that one's
blue that one is an example that really
clearly shows hey the camera has said
the light coming in from the outside is
white and so let's color balance to that
the lights the fluorescent tube lights
are white that's what the cameras tell
that would be gray in reality yeah and
we know that fluorescent tube lights
unless they're like 6,000 K they're
yellow
they're gonna be yellow they're gonna be
3,200 K in a warehouse like that so and
when I'm talking about that I'm talking
about the color balance of those lights
so we know that the colorization of that
particular photo this particular
warehouse photo is completely off right
it's got a lot of blue what's say we
free download that stuff and start
playing around I bring that up okay
there we go I'm going to bring this up
into the GNU image manipulation program
which is a free programming get a
gimp.org and convert that to my screens
color palette and there we go so we've
got loads and loads of blue so where we
gonna start I mean we don't have any
white to sample so we learned the last
time that if we right-click and we go
colors levels and we choose white
balance and then we select something
that should be white well what's
supposed to be white in this photo I
don't know you're like it's the pillar
white no I doubt it
and see what the camera has done is it
said that that window is white or the
light is white it's very inaccurate and
so that demonstrates for us what you and
I were describing which is if the white
balance is off and I can't detect the
white balance there is no white it's
gonna skew the photo towards some other
spectrum be a blue or yellow or magenta
and so that's what you end up with is
this photo that gets uploaded to two
pixels that is so blue it's obviously
wrong yeah that's a funny blue factory
mm-hmm so we looked at levels and that's
the first starting point that we're
gonna look at this week as well we're
not going to touch any of the levels
themselves instead what we're going to
we're gonna actually adapt for not the
white balance because we don't have
white but you said it at the top of this
what color should this photo be it
should be great gray yes he nailed it
you nailed it
I was hurt in her job well I'm being
careful and that wasn't a hard hit so we
mentioned Sascha that we've got black
we've got grey and we've got white right
so which one are we gonna choose Geoff
any guesses you weren't here but any
guesses great yes so we're actually
we're not gonna go with white balance
because we don't have any white to
balance based on but we can correct what
the camera thinks was white by saying
let's pick a gray point within this
photo so I'm clicking on gray and now
let's say the floor three let's do that
to one click nothing this is how we do
things around here
three two one click yes okay wait a
minute
Wow could it be that easy
uh yeah can uh yeah I can yeah I says so
just like when we were doing white
balance what am I gonna do I'm just
gonna kind of move around the photo
until that's got too much green that's
got too much green that's pretty good
looking good so I'm gonna say okay I'm
happy there yeah that's my happy place
yeah well then see so we can correct
that they put it up for us session but
you want to correct this before you use
the photo and this is just a great
example of a photo that came off the
camera and got uploaded and that's what
you're going to encounter is you're
taking photos you're gonna encounter
things where it's like I don't remember
it being so blue but that's what the
camera shows me that's the photo so
these are not Raw photos these are JPEGs
and this gives us an opportunity to
correct that you know what's funny about
that photo what is it we were looking at
it going all what would be white in
there I don't think there's anything in
there I had no clue those stupid pylons
were in there because it was so blue you
didn't even see even see them now the
I love that should have been white yeah
strips there they are look at that and
they just kind of pop out now yeah but I
still see a couple of things now I'm
zoomed in a little bit here but I see
for example those air ducts at the top
have a slew they've got like a blue kind
of greeny hue so let's take it to the
next level I'm gonna right click so now
we're stepping away from that one tool
the levels tool that we've been using
yep to get our balance now we're gonna
step into colorization so this is where
we can really tweak things so we want to
pull that down a little bit so the next
step is I'm going to adjust what's
called the color balance so just up here
in colors color balance I'm going to
grab my shadows see this so I've got
shadows mid-tones and highlights first
of all let's start with shadows and I've
got blue yellow so this is the spectrum
so if I pull toward blue it's gonna go
really blue if I pull toward yellow it's
gonna go really yellow but if I looks
right yeah that's but if I find that
happy medium where I've pulled out just
enough blue but I haven't fallen toward
the yellow spectrum I can just kind of
get it in there it's gonna be it's not
going to be much of an adjustment 6.4 on
the negative and I need to be clear that
the numbers that we're approaching here
the numbers that we're hitting are
specific to this photo it's gonna be
different for yours right what we're
learning here is not the end-all be-all
solution to every photo issue right
we're learning technique right the tool
that you can use for your particular
photo yeah and it may differ now when
you're adjusting this I feel like you
were looking at the main photo I am Jeff
yeah at the end of the day like the
reason you wanted justice because the
ductwork color was off so it's good good
point what did not have made sense to
focus in on the ductwork to get the
color on that right to adjust everything
else I want to be careful that I'm not
affecting the entire photo in such a way
that it turns yellow because I've pulled
enough blue out of the ductwork so I
want to I want to find that happy
balance okay okay so so let's let's take
a look at that let's bring out see what
happens if if I go too far in the
spectrum yeah that ductwork if we if we
concentrate on that
is turning to like a yellowy green yes
so even going down a little bit in the
photo so making the photo lose some of
that blue tinge is not really affecting
the blue in the ductwork correct so the
next step Jeff is I'm gonna jump into
mid-tones and I'm gonna do exactly the
same thing and I'm gonna pull down a
little bit now that's falling again too
far toward yellow so I'm just gonna be
very very careful that I'm a little more
subtle with that there we go
okay now highlights that's where things
start to get exciting pull that down a
little bit and you want to kind of you
want to look at that duct work but at
the same time I'm looking at the whole
photo I don't want to pull too much blue
out look at that it almost looks like
you know what it looked like originally
that is that's looking pretty good
yeah now one final thing as you
mentioned there is still too much blue
in the top here now could that be
because maybe there was like a studio
light or something that they were using
to illuminate things I think it all
stems from the fact that we've got
thirty to thirty five hundred Kelvin
lighting so we've got fluorescent tube
lighting that is toward what spectrum
you said it I did yellow yellow yellow
right we all know the fluorescent tube
lighting Falls toward the green yellow
end of the spectrum right so you
remember when we're looking at
saturations and everything what does the
slider say we've got blue on one side
and what color on the other yellow
yellow so if the camera has compensated
for the amount of yellow in the lighting
by pushing toward the blue spectrum what
do we end up with or really blue photo
exactly so in order to compensate for
that we need to pull back on that blue
to bring it back into the actual reality
of the spectrum which is yellow right
right so let's let's look at what our
final step here is going to be in a game
this is a tutorial that you can do in a
matter of moments like we're showing you
this and it's very very quick in order
to correct this photo and so I'm gonna
right click and I'm going to go colors
and this time I'm going to go
hue/saturation and watch what happens
here as I select blue the B
channel and start bringing down the
saturation okay I'm gonna bring that
right down and the saturation really
starts to look it's getting there okay
now I'm gonna I'm not gonna stop there
now I've brought that all the way down
because the blue is pretty heavy and
bringing it down doesn't seem to make a
whole lot of difference so so that means
I need to actually pull toward the cyan
end of the spectrum so I'm going to
actually click on Sian as well and now
pull the saturation down on that slowly
and watch what happens
and see what starts to happen yeah see
that ductwork up at the top yeah that's
me it starts to turn it's kind of like a
silver I want to pull a little bit of
yellow out of that photo as well so I
collect yellow on the spectrum I'm going
to desaturate a little bit just to pull
out what am i doing I'm not pulling the
yellow out of the photo I'm bringing
back the amount of yellow in the
lighting right without pulling toward
the blue end of the spectrum
so now as clean as that is I've got this
photo look at this folks look at the
ductwork that looks good that looks
silver we've got natural yellow coming
in from those windows not white it's not
white right it's a natural sunlight it's
like a yellowy hewed light right is it
possible to paste the original just
slightly beside it so you can see the
stark difference now sure yeah what I
can do here Jeff I'm gonna you guys want
to see that I think Jeff wants to show
you this so I'm gonna actually I'm going
to save this as and I'm gonna call this
an xcf file and then I'm gonna open the
original file you guys are gonna be mind
blown as soon as I open this ready okay
that was that was our starting point
folks do you remember that I'm gonna
paste that in on top so that was our
starting point with a photo that was not
a raw image this was a JPEG image so
this is a compressed image I'm gonna so
now that's what it looked like I'm gonna
bring down the opacity of that ready
here we go we're gonna fade into our
edited version
using and there we go so we have
corrected not only the the white balance
but we've actually corrected like look
at how natural that sunlight looks
coming in there it's got that beautiful
natural look jump back to the original
photo what do we see and you may not
have seen it right off the off the bat
you may have thought that that was a
natural looking photo until you suddenly
see our edited version which only takes
a few moments to to do that and then we
find out that they actually painted the
thing blue oh no it was actually a blue
warehouse there blue lights
who knew but the fact is is if you take
that little extra moment right with each
of your photo so you're gonna be
printing photos you're gonna be posting
them on your blog you're gonna be
posting them on Facebook or on Twitter
or wherever you post your photos for
family and friends if you just take that
extra couple of moments to just color
correct it tweak it a little bit you're
gonna find that you're gonna end up with
way better results so for sure
absolutely
[Music]
[Applause]
