here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom the Department of
National Defense is joining the fight
against 5g citing risks to GPS and
military operations Google is serious
about ensuring the pixel line of Android
phones is secure they've announced that
they'll pay security researchers up to
1.5 million dollars to find hacks and
exploits the official site for the
Monaro digital coin was hacked to
deliver currency stealing malware to
users who were downloading wallet
software and wouldn't it be nice if
there is a Facebook rival well there is
and it's founded by the guy who built
Wikipedia stick around the full details
are coming up later in the show this is
the category five dot TV newsroom
covering the week stop texting with a
slight Linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman
joined this week by Jeff Westen here's
some quick honorable mentions this week
Tesla CEO Elon Musk's suggested late
Tuesday that his company had now
received 250,000 pre-orders for the
cyber truck its Blade Runner inspired
electric pickup Tesla's unveil event for
its first pickup truck was marred by the
vehicles window breaking when an
executive threw a meatball at them in an
effort to demo the wall meatball Ron
Burgundy alright well anyways so ladies
and gentlemen there was a parently a
meatball that went through the window
you know just keep going after the
meatball Jeff it turns out the same test
was performed before that went perfectly
the car's trapezoid shape was also
mocked in various memes even at the
official social media pages for Lego
had their go at the cyber truck but
included innovative modular roof racks
mr. musk has said on Twitter that the
recent cyber truck is so planar is that
it can't stamp ultra hard 30 times steel
because it breaks the stamping press
despite the initial social media storm
on people mocking the trucks design
others had praised the cyber track for
bringing something new to the table wise
cam owners will soon find an update
removes the AI driven person detection
from their device due to the unexpected
termination of the agreement Waze had
with their AI provider in waze's
commitment wise wise oh my gosh
meatball ways for free they're stating
that their own AI division to bring back
person direction and other AI
improvements to the motion detection
wise is being praised by its users on
social media for their transparency
though what is not the what is no doubt
a difficult situation for their staff
the new firmware which removes the AI
features is planned for mid-january 2020
there's no ETA yet as to when their new
in-house solution will be ready let's
get into the top stories we're following
this week the Department of Defense is
joining the fight against 5g citing
risks to GPS and military operations the
issue is with a proposal before the
Federal Communications Commission to
open the 1 to 2 gigahertz frequency
range the L band for use in 5g cellular
networks the problem is that some of
those frequencies are already in use by
the global positioning system and other
military systems in a letter to FCC
Chairman a edgy PI Secretary of Defense
Mark Esper pressed for the rejection of
the proposal saying quote there are too
many unknowns and the risks are far too
great to federal operations to allow the
proposed system to proceed this could
have a significant negative impact on
military operations both in peacetime
and war end quote
while supporters of the proposal asite
the low power of the transmitters and
say this
not cause interference studies performed
in 2011 show that GPS signals arriving
from space could be overpowered by even
low powered ground-based transmissions
thanks to the inverse-square law a
report from the National space-based
positioning and navigation and timing
systems engineering forum noted that the
tests demonstrated that there are
significantly detrimental impacts to all
GPS applications assessed and quote
could it be that we're like approaching
that time when there just aren't enough
frequencies left like do you think that
we're almost there yeah it sounds like
we're there they're using frequencies
that are already in use are there more
frequencies we can just tap into let's
jump into the 50 gigahertz band and see
what it does to our brains like that's
the thing all right it's safe we've had
Wi-Fi interviews covering in the past
how they want to split up the way that
they're doing Wi-Fi in the home so it
makes me wonder if there's a way to take
some of these bands and kind of do the
same deal you know because it was I
forget what the technology was called
but it was an innovative new approach
that basically was kind of like you know
adding more lanes to a highway when it
comes to Wi-Fi and so I wonder if
something like that could add more bands
without necessarily boosting to a higher
power but you still need in order to
have more bands if you will using your
term it's you need more frequencies
right so but if they put things on I
think what the issue here is the
misconception that terrestrial low
powered broadcast will not interfere
with the big powerful satellites that
have really powerful broadcast well
thanks to the inverse-square exactly
anybody who has ever done karaoke knows
that if you take the left and right
channel and invert one of them and
overlap them you get a mono signal and
it takes the vocals out well how does
that happen it happens because typically
vocals are in the middle so it by in
inverting your phasing out the middle
channels
similarily you're gonna get an like that
kind of effect where two overlapping
signals you're going to cause
interference that is going to actually
phase out certain portions of that
signal and I think that's the concern
that has been brought forward but of
course those who are creating the low
powered terrestrial signals are saying
oh no these are just low powered signals
it's not going to cause any problem but
meanwhile yeah there's a very real
chance that it could so I wonder what
the solution would be I would think that
the military should probably have a
frequency that couldn't be like the alb
and well the thing is they've they've
been using their own band but that but
the issue I think is that I mean I'm
speculating because I'm not on the inner
circle of the US military obviously I
can't even get a meatball right but the
thing is the military has always been
ahead of the curve when it comes to
technology yes and it makes me wonder if
we've kind of hit this period in in our
world where technology is starting to
advance faster than what the military
can advance and so the issue they're
running into is that society's catching
up right and so is it possible that
we're reaching a point I mean not even
just about a signal but that in general
the world has started to nip at the
heels of military advancement because of
so many companies and so many smart
people out there doing crazy things
under personal Enterprise that the
military is going can we keep up right
and what does this mean yeah I kind of
stay ahead of that curve then they say
okay no more 5g really to 233 computers
because that's I mean that's the only
thing they can do right now it really
would mess with their safety right their
security and well I mean look at I'm
gonna say was a couple years ago we had
that whole GPS issue where people were
using their Fitbit at secret military
base and it was pointing up on a map
yeah because they're walking around like
techno
she has reached the point where we're
going what kind of other implications
are we not paying attention to that just
seems so benign but really is a big
concern and this is one where the
military may actually have a very legit
concern going this could be a national
security risk if we have you know
special signals that get intercepted by
Joe Blow with his you know low frequency
stuff at home it's very true I don't
know I don't even I don't know how to
properly answer the concern to be honest
I don't either but it's an interesting
story to follow for her mm-hmm
Google is serious about ensuring the
pixel line of Android phones is secure
they've announced that they'll pay
security researchers up to 1.5 million
dollars to find hacks and exploits the
company said Thursday that effective
immediately they'll pay 1 million
dollars for a quote full chain remote
code execution exploit with persistence
which compromises the Titan M secure
element on pixel devices and quote
they'll also pay $500,000 for exploits
that covertly steal data from a pixel or
bypass its lock screen Google will offer
a 50% bonus to any of its rewards if the
exploit works on specific Developer
Preview versions of Android that means a
critical Titan M hack on a Developer
Preview could fetch 1.5 million dollars
and a data exfiltration or lock screen
bypass could earn 750 thousand dollars
and so on previously rewards for the
most severe Android exploits topped out
at $200,000 the big reward bump
coincides with the investments Google
has poured into securing the pixel the
Titan M is a Google designed chip that's
physically segregated from the main
chipset of the device Titan M was first
introduced in 2018 with the rollout of
the pixel 3 it's also in the recently
released pixel 3a and will also be
included in the just-released pixel for
security researcher Salim Rashid
suspects were in the midst of an iOS
Android security paradigm shift
to understand the significance of
Google's announcement third party
exploit brokers 0 diem will pay hackers
$100,000 to weaponize a lockscreen
bypass on either iOS or Android Google
are offering up to seven and a half
times as much Wow so that's that's
really just smart thinking really
because it's worth the money to pay to
make sure that there isn't going to be
an exploit by somebody malicious you
great you just really want to be I guess
you want to be enticing enough that
nobody's going to pay more for the
exploit right and what you yeah and you
may as well use it for good right if if
someone's gonna hack the operating
system of an android device a pixel
device may as well give them enough
incentive that instead of selling that
to the bad guys yes sell it directly to
Google so that they can fix it and
you're gonna get seven and a half times
right I would do it for good and also
for $750,000 no I mean this sounds
self-serving I mean not for myself
because I have no clue how to even go
down that road I am NOT a hacker cracker
at all but this seems like as a
potential self-serving problem for
somebody who goes I found the exploit
yeah I found the problem Google I
realize you're offering 1.5 million but
I can sell it on the black market for 4
million but they can't they cannot
that's the thing they can sell it for a
hundred thousand so Google sang will
give you seven and a half times that
exactly Google is totally out bidding
the highest bidder of any I I understand
that but I mean as we keep bumping these
prices up people are gonna recognize oh
if I find that one exploit it's gonna be
a massive payday and I'm not happy with
1.5 like right now we're in 1.5 how long
before we're gonna see a three or a ten
or a 25 million dollar payout for an
exploit to be identified because I mean
you have to ask yourself how much money
is Google gonna make in putting out
these phones and you know is somebody
gonna look and be like yeah it's not
good enough like this does this just you
know read some selfishness I don't know
no no I feel like it's such a good pail
like it's such an amazing reward but I
think that people will actually up their
game trying to find it turns into
lecture it turns into trying to find an
easter egg in Oh some movie that I can't
remember right now there's Easter eggs
in a whole bunch more yes okay but it
will make people try harder to actually
find the exploit making the exploits
obvious faster making it more secure
quicker and then there won't be the
option of selling anything to the the
dirt I think that's the answer right so
nobody's gonna be like can I have 751 if
there's anything that we know like from
the whole marketplace of let's say
ransomware just using the example what
do we know about hackers due to
ransomware they want a quick payday
right so if I'm a hacker and I'm not but
if I was and I found this exploit and
was able to create an exploit for the
pixel I'm going to want what a quick
payday so am I gonna go to the guys that
are giving me $100,000 or am I gonna go
to the ones that are paying me seven
hundred and fifty thousand dollars you
know what the answer to that is that is
the idea behind what Google is doing I
suspect and I think that it's a really
good motivator for for I'll say a
motivator a lot of times what we
perceive as a bad guy in the hacking
industry will call it is really just
somebody that it has fallen upon the
wrong channel okay if I find this hack
oh I can sell it for a hundred thousand
dollars so if that's my option now I've
got this opportunity to get a hundred
thousand dollars right and and it's not
necessarily that they are a bad person
or that they are doing a bad thing is
just well but now it's been weaponized
because the the that group has bought it
so what they're doing is they're also
reallocating
the brilliant minds of the youth and the
the hacker the hackers and really
redirecting that toward correcting the
situation and saying okay we'll give you
more money and and you're gonna you're
helping to improve the security of the
platform right so I think it's a whole
it does so much good I agree I think
they should also offer them a job to be
honest and that that could happen yeah
Microsoft used to do that years ago when
they first set up their website it was
it can happen multiple layers of
security like if you break in you get a
job here I feel like this whole story is
something that like would inspire Amy
didi
right like she'd be like yeah I'm all
over this we've got to take a quick
break the crypto report and more of this
week's top tech stories are coming up
don't go anywhere
[Music]
welcome
a quick look at the crypto report and
how things look as of Wednesday November
27th 2019 via our website category 5 dot
TV we've been collecting the data and
looking at how things have been
transitioning over the past week and
we're seeing that Bitcoin is really
losing a fair bit this week dropping
down more than $1,000 us as far as its
US dollar equivalent value down at seven
thousand one hundred and ninety three
dollars and change
litecoin is also down I mean everything
is on is on the decline this week at 46
dollars and 87 cents aetherium
is at 147 eighty-one Manero is down at
5150 for not dropping as much as I would
have expected considering the exploit
that happened on their website this week
turtle coin is holding fairly steady
having dropped just 0.01 ten thousandth
of a cent to 0.23 and we're now looking
at the basic attention token as well and
that is down from last week at zero
well 21 cents US per coin remember that
this is not we're not providing any kind
of financial advice or investment advice
what we are giving you is just the facts
with regards to cryptocurrency and the
different coins that we are monitoring
here at the studio the cryptocurrency
market never closes
and it's always volatile so make sure
that you only invest what you are able
and willing to lose because it's quite
probable that you may never turn in an
income from it and that's not our intent
we just want to give you the facts you
can find out more at category-five dot
TV click on shows the category-five TV
newsroom and you'll see the crypto
report there and that will just give you
up to up to the day cryptocurrency data
for the coins that we are tracking I'm
gonna head back over the newsroom to you
two
Thank You Ravi the official site for the
deliver currency stealing malware to you
speaking up we're downloading a wallet
software mm-hmm yep the supply chain
attack came to light last week
Monday when a site user reported that
the cryptographic hash for a command
line interface wallet downloaded from
the site didn't match the hash listed on
the page over the next several hours
users discovered that the mismatching
hash wasn't the result of an error
instead it was an attack designed to
infect get Manero users with malware
site officials later confirmed that
finding an analysis of the malicious
Linux binary found that it added a few
new functions to the legitimate one one
of the functions was called after user
opened or created a new wallet it sent
the wallet seed which is the
cryptographic secret key used to access
wallet funds to a third party server the
malware then sent wallet funds to
another server at least one person
participating in a reddit forum claimed
to have lost digital coins after
installing the malicious Linux binary a
malicious Windows version of the CLI
wallet carried out an almost identical
attack sequence anyone who downloaded
the CLI Manero wallet on Monday November
18
2019 is advised to check the hashes of
their binaries if they don't match the
official ones delete the files and
download them again do not run
compromised binaries for any reason I
think yeah and this just goes to show
like if there is a checksum difference
so if you've got the md5 or the sha
checksum and it doesn't match what it's
supposed to be just don't even touch it
just like find out what's going on
because you may think hey well that's
weird it doesn't match well in this
particular case it could have saved like
the one that I heard of like lost $7,000
out of their wallet as far as US
currency goes and it just you know you
got to be careful and crypto currency is
a really really lucrative target for
malicious attackers and it can happen it
can happen and in this case hey you have
to be really diligent I mean it would be
it would be so simple just to assume
that everything was going right except
here here you go and the half
just don't watch out yeah well exactly
and I mean I know that there's different
type of wallets you can use like you can
use your cloud-based wallet you can have
a software wallet you can have a paper
wallet that's completely cut off from
the world but I mean each of them comes
with their own risks I mean and if
you're gonna go with a paper wallet
because you're like hey I don't want to
be caught by something like this if you
ever lose your paper you're toast right
you know and it's unfortunate I mean as
somebody who is mined mineiro in the
past you know it's so easy to just kind
of like oh here's you know another wall
I'm gonna try this sure and you're not
even paying attention and then you hit
your minor and away you go
you know and you walk away and then
comeback days later to see how you're
doing and in that meantime you've lost
everything because you're not paying
attention and it's so easy to do Jeff
I've even heard of people that will set
up automatic updates for their wallet
software and their mining software and
when you do that and it's it's tough
because a lot of times like scale is a
perfect example where the coin has
changed so many times that it just gets
frustrating because you've got to keep
reinstalling the software so people will
tend to set up an automatic updater and
what happens if that update comes down
the wire and it's malicious that's a big
problem and when it comes to
cryptocurrency
there's there's really no way to get
your money back was gone it's no it's
not like it's a regulated financial
transaction where you know you can buy
insurance on it right it's not insured
in any way it's scary that this is
happening so I feel like early in the
life of cryptocurrency but I know it's
not like early early days but I feel
like it's scary that now as it's
becoming more common knowledge that
cryptocurrency exists and people are
kind of getting right on the bandwagon
in the malls there are Bitcoin vendors
and now this is coming out which makes
me think is this the beginning of a
cycle that's going to gain momentum and
I wonder whether there is going to be a
way then to ensure that that's a valid
concern Sasha yeah
but I think what it is is it's really
just like this is something that's gonna
constantly be under attack
so is this gonna be a wake up call
Foreman arrows developers for example to
solidify their security something went
wrong
something allowed this to happen they'll
need to figure out what happened and put
a stop to it and and protect their users
plain and simple it makes me wonder I
mean because you already have the US
government looking at regulatory
oversight and declaring liebre from
Facebook right as a securities currency
it makes me wonder if this is gonna open
the door because the issues we've that
have gone around the globe with Bitcoin
and now you've got this issue with
monaro if it's going to start pushing
regulatory oversight in legislation that
says you know what cryptocurrencies are
in fact a financial transaction they
should be governed by the navvies
Commission I don't fear that no but it
makes you it does make me wonder if it's
gonna get to the point where somebody's
gonna bring that topic up and say this
needs to happen now they're just gonna
say too bad so sad it's not a valid
currency that's how they'll move on yeah
and speaking of Sasha we're gonna jump
into the next story wouldn't it be nice
if there was a facebook rival well there
is and it's founded by the guy who built
Wikipedia Jimmy Wales is expressing
excitement that his new social network
WT social already has more than 160,000
members the platform says it will never
sell user data and relies on the
generosity of individual donors rather
than ads the donations are by way of a
modest subscription fee it is
positioning itself as news focused place
and says members will be able to edit
misleading headlines they will see the
articles shared by their network in a
timeline format appearing with the
newest first rather than algorithms that
try to appeal to their interests the
introduction to WT social says quote we
will empower you to make your own
choices about what content you are
served and to directly edit misleading
headlines or flag problem posts we will
foster an environment where bad actor
removed because it is right not because
it suddenly affects our bottom-line
unquote
in a recent interview with the Financial
Times mr. Wales shared his view that the
problem with advertising led services
such as Facebook is that the winners
often low quality content social media
consult the consultant Zoe Carnes said
that she thought the network would have
to grow its numbers quickly in order to
prove itself to be an a viable
alternative to the Giants she says quote
it's going to need a lot of money plowed
into it people are so used to social
media being free I think businesses
might pay for it but people are so used
to having news at their fingertips for
free end quote
WT social is a separate entity to
Wikipedia and can be found at WT dot
social this is an interesting one I
would say that this is something I'm not
necessarily something that I'm going to
immediately delve into but I like the
idea of paying for the idea that my
stuff is never gonna be sold like if I
think you're not going to be from the
sound of it you're not gonna be
manipulated right by what is making them
money exactly now the tricky part about
it is a little bit like in the back of
my mind I think Wikipedia isn't like a
super reliable source when you're doing
research but this isn't about research
this is about entertaining news stories
social media yeah I see I wonder though
like I get what they're going for and
and I get the whole subscription-based
thing whatever that modest fee might be
I don't know if it's something I will
but would you pay 14 now see I don't
think I would because once they get you
hooked then the fees go up because oh
it's more expensive we've had it Wow
Jeff is like all over like as soon as
you give them five dollars it'll be ten
dollars okay that's the way that Netflix
was that I mean as they keep pushing on
new content which I'm not knocking
Netflix but I mean you get locked in at
$7.99 what was a ten years ago and now
you're looking at $14.99 like the price
is doubled and you're still getting the
same server
is just extra content they're producing
more shows but honey that's Netflix the
whole point with this thing my concern
though is the fact that it's user edited
input like we already have a problem now
with fake news and me--let manipulated
the opposite of fake news though I
understand that but somebody added sin I
mean you see this now with Wikipedia I
mean what was it about for 15 years
there was a fake religious God that was
on Wikipedia that was deemed to be real
but in fact it wasn't because somebody
put something on there that wasn't true
and never got caught so what's to say
you have a news article where somebody
goes hey you know what this is this is a
great article but I think I'm going to
change it just just slightly so that
it's 98% true but there's a little bit
of false fact in it and suddenly it
continues to grow and it takes off we
already have this problem now the whole
idea of having a social medias
subscription-based service that people
can then edit and alter the news on I
find wrong but the alternative is a
social media platform where you don't
have the opportunity to edit those who
have the money control exactly those who
have who put billions of dollars into it
are able to control and edit if you're
given the choice of only two things
you're given Facebook or WT social
Facebook is free but right but you're
going to be manipulated according to
what they think you want to see social
is going to show you news stories that
could perhaps be edited by peers so the
question becomes then Jeff would you
give WT social a chance by trying it for
a couple of months just to see if your
concerns are valid or are you so dead
set against this kind of idea I mean I
love the idea of Wikipedia I love that
social aspect of sharing and fried I do
too and I and I use Wikipedia often I
would be willing to give WT social a try
not interested in paying for it yeah
like if they want to get people on board
they need to open up the doors for say
three or six months get people sucked in
where it's free they start building a
presence there because so many people I
think are gonna turn an eye to this and
go I'm not putting up many money for
something where there's only a hundred
sixty thousand people I have to just say
that actually nothing is free no it's
true I understand that right way or
another you're paying for it so I would
rather actually pay money out of my
pocket than to try and be afraid of
where they're making money on my behalf
like where where are they getting the
money from me existing like like there's
on that but there's no way that you're
gonna be able to say that the data and
how you use their site still isn't going
to be used for somebody's personal game
they said they're not going to sell it
it doesn't mean the fact that they can't
have subsidiary companies that utilize
that same information or really Jeff
we're getting into speculative this is
all speculation and I don't like to go
there and I actually love the idea that
somebody anybody's got to do something
different is coming up and saying hey
you're not stuck with the one choice
there is now going to be other choices
and maybe this isn't the only one that's
gonna exist this is the first of maybe
many I agree knows it there's always
going to be changing options I just
there's something about it just kind of
feel thanks to Ray W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at e3 on.com slash
newsroom
from the category 5 TV newsroom then
stash your estimate I'm Ravi Ferguson
and I'm Jeff Lester
