hi and welcome to category five
technology TV so you went to pine
sixty-four org you found the pine book
pro you click the buttons you hummed and
hawed for all of about a microsecond and
you pressed Add to Cart you ordered it
and you waited for it to ship finally
you got that shipping notification so
you waited some more you waited and
waited and waited some would say
patiently you and I both know that's not
the case but finally did not came on the
door your pine Book Pro has arrived you
ripped into the packaging you didn't
even stop to think hey maybe I should do
an unboxing video no there's no time for
that you need to get into this device
your pine Book Pro is beautiful how did
they do this for 200 bucks you power it
on for the first time and it doesn't
work that is the scenario for too many
people right now as there have been some
problems with the latest run of pine
book pros I've got some good news for
you though they're easy problems for you
to resolve I'm going to show you how I'm
going to tell you kind of what happened
I'm going to tell you two of the most
common issues with this run of pine book
pros and I'm going to show you how to
fix it stick around
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 dot TV it's
so great to have you here my name is
Robby and I am your host once again this
week because nobody else is allowed in
our studio space due to the current
situation but hey I'm here and it is so
great to have you joining me as well
whether you're here live or if you're
watching after the fact on demand it's
great to see you
this show would not be possible if it
wasn't for the support of its community
and in particular I want to say a big
thanks to BP 9 today Scott Barclay Ron
Morissette Jerry Kowalski Jonathan
Garvey Jen's Neeson bollock now ski and
Bill Marshall Plus everyone else who has
supported us through patreon through our
Kickstarter campaign to get us moved
into this space I appreciate your
support so very much and you know that
we wouldn't be able to do this show
especially mid pandemic and and with the
whole having to move into our new studio
space but we're here we're safe and the
show goes on week to week things start
to feel a little more structured and a
little more technically sound each week
there's there are new challenges this
week it's been
preprocessing things and getting
everything up and going and getting
things working previous weeks I haven't
had enough hdmi ports that have been run
you know through the walls into the the
main studio space and and so we're
working things working on things and
getting everything set up and
week-to-week we get stronger we get
better and it does get better and better
every single week doesn't it so thank
you for being here thank you all for
your support if you'd like to support us
and you haven't done so yet or maybe
you've done so in the past and you'd
like to do it on an ongoing basis
probably the easiest way and kind of a
cool way to get involved in the show is
to go to patreon.com/scishow
because it has some perks and it makes
it really really cool because when you
subscribe you choose what perks you
would like and then we honor those and
you get things like behind-the-scenes
access or perhaps you want to be able to
watch the live show but on-demand
maybe you can't make it during the live
broadcast but you like that
behind-the-scenes look and you like to
be able to see the bloopers and those
kinds of things that get edited out for
the the on-demand version of the show so
those are some of the perks and and you
can go to patreon.com/scishow this week
I want to remind you please subscribe to
us on YouTube and click that bell and
that's going to ensure that you get the
notifications every time we post a new
video like this one and all of the
videos that we post over on Linux tech
show as well so make sure you subscribe
that would be fantastic we're trying to
achieve 25,000 subscribers yeah within
the next let's say then let's try to do
this in June I joked last week that I'm
only going to give you until the end of
May but realistically hey we're just
trying to hit that 25,000 land a kind of
milestone
and I think we can do it we're very very
close I think we're within about 400
subscribers so if you haven't subscribed
on YouTube yet head over to Linux tech
show comm and that's a really great way
to be able to receive notifications when
there are new episodes and also a great
way to interact with us because you can
like those videos you can comment on
them and and they're edited down as well
so you don't have to sit through the
full hour you can just watch a little
two or five-minute video sometimes a
little more than that but you don't have
to watch the full hour and you know all
this rambling that I that I do yes all
right so our show this week I've decided
to transition as you saw there in the
intro I've transitioned the show this
week because of the latest shipment of
the pine Book Pro so in a little bit a
little later in the show I'm going to be
going through those those issues that I
mentioned at the top of the show to be
able to help you if you have experienced
those problems with your pine Book Pro I
want to be able to help you to be able
to correct them so and that is in
particular the Wi-Fi or the inability to
boot so you want to stick around for
that but we are moving back our mikrotik
series by one week in lieu of that but I
still want to show some love to the
mikrotik community as well so let's jump
over let's jump over to comments
questions concerns regarding our
mikrotik series you can find out more
about this micro tech series at cat5 dot
TV slash mikrotik a real quick rundown
for you this series is designed to help
you get from never using a micro tech
device to being able to do some really
cool advanced stuff with your mikrotik
router mikrotik routers the reason that
we are featuring them is because they
are affordable Zoomer priced routers but
the feature set that they include is
more like that of an Enter
prai's router so you're getting way more
than you pay for and we're able to do
basically anything with a mikrotik
router that you can with those
enterprise
you know the devices that are ten times
the price and you can have one at home
they are perfect for small medium-sized
businesses because they are so
affordable and yet so secure and so
capable so looking at the micro tech
devices through the course of the series
a cat5 dot TV slash mikrotik you're
going to be able to learn from the
get-go how to use them how to program
them how to set up your networking and
that series is available for you how
much money Robby absolutely free zero
dollars so cat five TV slash mikrotik is
where you can enjoy that series which is
ongoing and so it's a great opportunity
for you to be able to learn more about
these devices so jumping over to our
youtube channel at linux tech show com
first of all dr. reality one wants to
say this is a great tutorial many thanks
and dr. reality one in reference to one
of those mikrotik tutorials I appreciate
that very very much as you can imagine a
lot of work goes into the show a lot of
work goes into the series and I am
passionate about these devices and the
technology that we demonstrate here and
I'm so glad that you're that you're
enjoying that TCC says I'm glad to see
someone giving mikrotik some love yes
how can you not I think the only people
TCC who would not give love to mikrotik
as you say are those who have never used
micro tech or maybe never even heard of
micro tech I mean you you go to a super
center back in the days when we had
those and could walk into a retail store
and just buy things off the shelf those
were interesting times but back then I
mean what did what did you see
neck year Ling
success right mikrotik no I don't know
that I've ever seen it in a super center
so I think that maybe it maybe it's that
it's not that people wouldn't love it if
they knew about it so maybe that's why
I'm showing some love to mikrotik
because I want our viewers to know that
hey there's something that's better
there's something that is affordable and
something that is fantastic and secure
Rockaway CCW says my mikrotik came in
the mail yesterday yes I tried to name
my Wi-Fi this is not the Wi-Fi you're
looking for but it wouldn't let me see I
said mikrotik can do anything but you
have to have a valid SSID that I guess
is I just assumed that you knew that
maybe there's a character limit or maybe
it I'm reading a game or maybe it
doesn't like spaces or punctuation not
sure so instead I named the 5 gigahertz
not yours and the 2 gigahertz DEA
surveillance van all right so you got
two networks the five gigahertz for your
own usage and this DEA surveillance ban
can I suggest if you want to play this
fun game that you look at on a cat5 TV
slash mikrotik rockaway CCW i did a
tutorial on how to set up a true guest
Wi-Fi and you could use that virtual
WLAN and then that way you're not using
your you know your two gigahertz because
you might want to use that for something
for real right but you could set up a
virtual wireless LAN and it could be
named with a silly SSID like that if you
like
so Rockaway CCW goes on this is a long
comment folks in fact it was sent in two
parts says I'd like to have the two
gigahertz Wi-Fi DEA surveillance van
activate and
deactivate at random times to mimic a
van cruising around the area to freak
out my crackhead neighbors oh boy is
there a way to do that
Rockaway CCW asks you never know the
motivation of these questions but hey
okay so I said you can do anything with
mikrotik and truly truly you can so I'll
just jump over to my pine Book Pro here
which has web fig up and running and
Rockaway CCW yes there it would be
possible to do that okay so first of all
I want to remind you that DEA underscore
surveillance van that is your SSID
that's not your your interface name so
what we want to obtain is your interface
name so over here you may remember if
you've been following the series go up
to wireless and click wireless and you
see okay so find your 2.4 gigahertz - so
there it is - gigahertz it's the one in
the middle it is w LAN one on my
mikrotik it may be different on yours
but find out which one it is you need to
know the name of that so in my case it's
all lowercase W LAN 1 now what I want to
do is go into system and scheduler and
in the course of this series I have
mentioned that the mikrotik is
programmable so that's essentially what
we're going to do we're going to program
it using the scheduler because you
mentioned that you want this to happen
you said at random times it's not
actually going to be random in our case
we'll do it on a schedule and it will
recur so it will turn on and then off
and on and off so add new and we're
going to call this one name it
turn off 2.4 gigahertz and my start date
it's setting it automatically to
tomorrow's date I want to set it to
today just so that you see it happening
right away and
to set it to 12 o'clock on the button
with an interval now you would probably
if you want it to be every minute right
you could do something like that if you
want it to be every 10 minutes something
like that for the case of the for the
sake of the demonstration I'm gonna do
every 10 seconds keeping in mind we're
going to be turning it on and off on and
off so it's actually gonna be every 5
seconds I'm going to set the intervals
as such so but that will just make it so
that we can see it right away so the on
event is where we're actually going to
program it so we're gonna say interphase
Wireless disable
what was the name of it W LAN 1 okay as
soon as I hit OK I'm gonna lose my W LAN
1 so if I head over to cos C its it's
already scheduled it and it's gonna say
run count and that's going to start
increasing see that one so now my
Wireless is off so if I go to wireless
now you can see W LAN 1 has been
disabled so go back to your scheduler
because we need to now the van is driven
away presumably right so we want to make
it so that the van has returned let's
put this into a scenario that maybe
makes a little more sense because I
understand rockaway CCW is being a
little bit silly here but I'm still
happy to oblige let's think about a
parent who wants to be able to turn so
set your guest Wi-Fi use that tutorial
to create a Wi-Fi for your kids to use
then have it turn it off automatically
at curfew okay
so let's use that as the there's a
really good scenario I like that so
there you go
ok so here we are now creating remember
where I am here I'm under system
scheduler and I'm creating a new one so
add new I don't have anything to turn it
back on so re-enable 2.4 gigahertz Wi-Fi
and this could be any interface right it
doesn't have to be Wi-Fi in our case
where that's the demonstration but so
interface wireless and able W LAN
is what that one is called so now it's
to look at the schedule so remember I
set the other one to 12 o clock right on
the button so I'm setting this the same
just to make it easy for you to see on
the third which is when I'm filming this
live and we're setting this to 10
seconds so right now it's it's set to
happen at exactly the same time as our
other schedule which turns it off so
basically these are going to cancel each
other out so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to offset this one by 5 seconds so
every 5 seconds we're gonna have the
Wi-Fi turn off and then five seconds
later it's going to turn back on even
though each task is happening every 10
seconds
so if all goes well I'm gonna hit ok and
we should see that that one is going to
run and see the schedule there they're
off by 5 seconds re-enable has run ok
let's jump back over to wireless and
watch my WLAN just watch it I'm not
gonna touch a thing here my hands are
off it's on watch wn1 and it's off that
is going to continue happening
indefinitely it's gonna keep going on
and off and on and off now use the
scenario that I gave you for those of
you who are not trying to simulate a van
and maybe use this to schedule that the
internet turns off for the particular
Wi-Fi that your kids are using at 9
o'clock p.m. and it turns back on at 7
o'clock in the morning or maybe you even
though that you're having a home school
right now right the scheduler can be set
to only Saturdays and it can turn on at
7 but maybe because you're homeschooling
now you want it to start at 10 a.m.
because you want the kids to get their
schoolwork done first or something like
that that is a cool idea one final note
for you Rockaway CCW you could actually
use TX - power as part of your command
so just to put this out there I'm not
going to show you how to do this because
this is getting into a little bit more
sophistication you'll probably need to
create a script and then initiate that
script with your scheduler but you could
have it start at like full
power and turn down the power every
second so that it seems as though the
van is actually getting closer and then
getting further away because the signal
strength keeps going up gets really
strong sits there at full strength for
about 10 minutes and then tapers off and
comes down you could actually do that
using TX - power when you're programming
that oh man
putting ideas in your head all right so
the question that I want to pose this
week is through the course of this
mikrotik series a cat5 dot TV slash
mikrotik would you like me to be
continuing to use my web browser web fig
or would you prefer that I use wind box
which is the installable client from
mikrotik the advantage to like just a
really really quick advantage to wind
box is that it has multitasking built in
and it is a tabbed layout instead of
scrolling down the advantage to using
the web browser is of course it's not at
all reliant on what program I'm using I
can just be using Firefox Chrome I'm
using brave some folks argue that
perhaps the client is more secure others
argue that the browser is more secure
and sometimes it's a moot point because
the browser access I have not opened up
to the world it is only accessible
within my land so it's not a security
risk whatsoever as far as that goes so
needless to say tell me which one do you
want web fig the browser interface or
wind box the application that allows you
to connect your mikrotik and manage it
that way and you have to tell me in your
comment below why don't just say wind
box I want to know why why are you
suggesting I use wind box what makes you
prefer it why are you suggesting I use
web fig and why
you prefer it that's my question that
I'm posing to you this week and I'll be
back again with more at cat5 dot TV
slash micro tech guys take a quick break
folks I'll be right back
we're all struggling during these trying
times and pine sixty-four presses on and
has been working hard to fulfill orders
in spite of the state of our world right
now with the latest run of pine book
pros going out amidst the cove at
nineteen pandemic things haven't gone as
smoothly as we'd all hope and a couple
of problems have cropped up so far with
the latest shipment I'm gonna cover two
such issues with the May June 2020 run
of pine book pros Wi-Fi not working and
an inability to boot stick around I'll
show you how to fix both of these
problems
the issue pine sixty-four can't provide
their own quality assurance or quality
control during the pandemic they don't
have access to the factory and they may
not even be able to enter the factories
until September it's not ideal and no
doubt the team at pine sixty-four are
feeling frustrated or even potentially
upset that some of these issues have
cropped up but like everyone else
they're doing the absolute best they
possibly can during these difficult
times so what's the best that we can do
as their community I think it's to
support one another and spread
information to help each other to be
able to get up and running quickly
should we encounter these problems
hopefully this information reaches you
ahead of your pine Book Pro shipment and
that way you're gonna know what to do so
let's get our maker on first problem a
beautiful yet sadly unbootable pine Book
Pro if you're newly arrived pine book
pro simply won't boot first thing you
want to do is try to boot from an SD
card and if it boots from the SD it's
possible the emmc storage is disabled
with a hardware switch and you may need
to flip the emmc disabled switch
unfortunately it seems that while some
of the current run of pine book pros had
that switch enabled out of the factory
which means there emmc storage is
physically disabled and when I say emmc
think of that in terms of hard drive the
storage medium within the the pine book
pro so let's open up our pine Book Pro
to correct this first off I've already
removed the ten screws just to expedite
this procedure for the air this is the
hinge at the back and I'm just gonna
carefully pry upward but not all the way
because the speakers are affixed with a
double-sided adhesive so I want to just
kind of carefully reach in here and peel
those off so one over here and one here
and the reason I've done that is because
I don't want to pull on these very very
fine wires that are connecting those
there we are okay so now I'm gonna and I
should mention I have cut myself on
these edges before this is a very very
thin metal and it is very sharp so as
you're doing this be very mindful of
that be careful as I say I have cut
myself even live on the air on this so I
want to warn you about that okay
I'm going to turn this around so you've
got a little bit of a better view and I
want to show you this is the emmc chip
right here you can see I've got a 64 gig
storage medium here emmc
and that's just a chip that you can you
can remove and replace if you want but
that's included with your pine Book Pro
however as we can see here the switch is
set toward the front this is the switch
that enables and disables the emmc so
what I need to do is take that switch
and very carefully flip it toward the
hinge mechanism alright so I've just
flipped that over and now it's as simple
as that let's put this case back on
being mindful of the sharp edges always
put the case back on before you flip it
over otherwise you may lose some of the
internal plastic components that kind of
elevate things flip that over and let's
give it a test so I'm going to carefully
open up my pine Book Pro and let's see
if she boots I've got a power light now
which is promising it's turned green and
we've got the Manjaro logo and we're
booting up fantastic and there you go
we're greeted with the KDE plasma login
screen on Manjaro Linux so I'm just
gonna quickly log in here and we should
be good to go right no holdup remember I
said there were two problems we're in
but Wi-Fi isn't working it's in fact not
working at all the way I can determine
that and you may go through this is if
you jump down to the wireless
configuration wireless network down near
the clock click that and it's as if
there is no wireless we'll see the
reason why your pine Book Pro Wi-Fi
isn't working
is because the factory left the privacy
switches on during testing see there's a
Wi-Fi privacy switch on your pine Book
Pro that's great right well you press
the pine 64 logo while at the same time
pressing f11 and then your Wi-Fi chip
will be enabled or disabled now the
catch-22 though is that the Wi-Fi chip
is not hot swappable however the privacy
switch being that it's an actual
physical Hardware switch is cutting
power to the chip so upon turning it
back on it's not going to work so even
if you turn it off and on again
unfortunately that fix is not going to
work in this case when you press and
hold the pine logo and press f11 you're
gonna see a series of flashes on your
num lock three flashes means that it's
disabled Pine button and f11 two flashes
means it's enabled remember three
flashes one two three my Wi-Fi chip is
now powered off press it again one two
the Wi-Fi chip is now powered on however
I still don't have wireless so what I
need to do now is I do in fact need to
reboot my mana or Linux let's do it back
at the login and if all went well we've
solved both of those issues today let's
find out and almost to my desktop oh I
saw a Wi-Fi connection there click and
there we go
Wireless is now enabled one last tip
when you're connecting to your wireless
if you have access to five gigahertz
Wi-Fi
please connect to that you're gonna get
a better signal and because we have
shared frequencies between Bluetooth and
the wireless adapter if you go on a 2.4
gigahertz you're going to possibly
potentially encounter other issues with
your Bluetooth devices so use 5
gigahertz if you can for your Wi-Fi
connectivity now no doubt this whole
procedure is going to be improved in
time and it really only came to light
because of the fact that the wireless
privacy switch was enabled out of the
factory I believe that they're going to
fix this with software in the future so
please watch for some updates and for
more help with your pine Book Pro check
out their comprehensive wiki page on
pine 64 org and if you can't find what
you're looking for they also provide a
community forum and they are active on
Twitter reddit IRC telegram discord
among others and you'll find each at
pine 64 dot org we have to take a quick
break stick around
this is category five technology TV so
great to have you here hey have you
checked out our website lately category
five dot TV when you're there you'll
notice that we've got a lot of great
features right there on our home page
not only do we have the community coffee
break which happens every single week
incidentally there's one coming up this
Sunday so make sure you're there
I believe that's June 7th and you'll
find out more details on our website
category 5 TV scrolling up aways from
that there is the crypto corner with
Robert Koenig we're gonna be hearing
from him today as well and that's right
there on our website if you want to
learn about crypto currency where things
are at with the market and Robert
incidentally is going to be doing some
teaching series with us as well to share
a little bit more of the intricate
details of how crypto currency as well
as the blockchain technology itself
works which I'm really looking forward
to learning myself and beyond that our
website brings together all the features
that we do here on the show so when you
hear me talking about various
technologies we have it laid out so that
you can find information about those
things so what I mean by that is when I
talk about the pine book Pro you can go
to our website category 5 TV click on
pine book pro and you'll get a list of
all the videos and all the times that I
talked about that so there may be more
videos that are of interest to you that
have to do with that particular topic so
I'd encourage you to check it out it's
category 5 dot TV at this point we need
to head over to the newsroom here's
Becca here's what's coming up in the
category 5 TV newsroom Walmart employees
are speaking up about the inaccuracy of
their anti-theft AI sony has delayed
hosting a showcase event for its next
games console a brand new release from
Raspberry Pi now has 8 gigabytes of RAM
on a
for Microsoft themselves are warning
users to think twice before installing
the Windows 10 2004 update and
researchers in Australia claim they have
recorded the fastest ever internet data
speed stick around the full details and
this week's crypto horner are coming up
this is the category 5 dot TV newsroom
covering your week stop texting with a
slight linux bias
from the newsroom I'm Becca Ferguson
Walmart users uses AI technology to
detect shoplifters at self checkout and
a group of store associates are
concerned that it's putting their health
at risk
a group of Walmart employees say they
were past their breaking point with ever
seen a small artificial intelligence
firm based in Ireland whose technology
Walmart began using in 2017 walmart uses
ever seen in thousands of stores to
prevent shoplifting at registers and
self checkout kiosks but the workers
claimed misidentified innocuous behavior
as theft and often failed to stop actual
instances of stealing the group of
employees has chosen to stay anonymous
since they are not authorized to speak
to the press they told the press that
they are dismayed that their employer
one of the largest retailers in the
world is relying on AI they believed to
be flawed one worker said that the
technology was sometimes even referred
to internally as never seen because of
its frequent mistakes the worker said
they had been upset about Walmart's use
have ever seen for years and claimed
colleagues had raised concerns about the
technology to managers but were rebuked
they decided to speak to the press they
said after a June 2019 Business Insider
article reported Walmart's partnership
with ever seen publicly for the first
time the story described how ever seen
uses AI to analyze footage from
surveillance cameras installed in the
ceiling and can detect issues in real
times such as when a customer places an
item in their bag without scanning it
when the system spots something it
automatically alerts store associates
the concerned associates produced a
video to prove their concerns were valid
it begins with a person using self
checkout to buy to jumble packages
packages of Reese's white peanut butter
cups because the packages are stacked on
top of each other only one is scanned
but both are successfully placed in the
bagging area without issue
the same person then grabs two gallons
of milk by their handles and moves them
across the scanner with one hand only
one is rung up but both are put in the
bagging area they then put their own
cell phone on top of the machine and an
alert
pops up saying they need to wait for
assistance of false-positive the
filmmaker repeats the same process at
two more stores where they failed to
scan a heart-shaped Valentine's Day
chocolate box with a puppy on the front
and a Philips Sonicare electric
toothbrush the video concludes that ever
seen failed to stop more than 100
dollars of would-be theft the employees
believe that the tech frequently
misinterprets innocent behavior is
potential shoplifting which frustrates
customers and store associates and leads
to longer lines one worker described it
as a noisy tech a fake AI that just
pretends to safeguard the corona virus
pandemic has given their concerns more
urgency one associate said they worried
false positives could be causing Walmart
workers to break social distancing
guidelines unnecessarily we never seen
Flags an issue a store associate C needs
to intervene and determine whether
shoplifting or another problem is taking
place a corporate Walmart manager even
expressed strong concern that workers
were being put at risk by additional
contact necessitated by false positives
and asked whether they'd ever seen
systems should be turned off to protect
customers and workers this of course
comes at a time when self checkout may
become even more important for stores as
customers look for low-risk ways to shop
Sony has delayed hosting a showcase
event for his next games console Sony
did not directly mention the civil
unrest in the US but alluded to it say
we do not feel that right now is a time
for celebration adding it wanted more
important voices to be heard the firm
had been set to unveil some of the games
and development for its forthcoming
PlayStation 5 on Thursday
hours later Activision delayed the
release of new call of duty content the
firm said now is not the time to launch
new seasons for modern warfare warzone
or Call of Duty mobile it had been
expected that both free-to-play products
would launch this week presenting the
firm a fresh opportunity to sell
character outfits and other in-game
items other technology firms have also
canceled planned launch events games
publisher Electronic
it's postponed its reveal event for its
latest sports title Madden NFL 21 and
Google had earlier delayed an online
event for the next version of Android
Sony's move avoids the risks inherent in
trying to promote games likely to
involve violent combat at a time when
standoffs and clashes are occurring
across the u.s. other game companies
that are planning launches over the
coming days may now come under pressure
to reconsider their plans as well single
board computer fans especially those who
love the Raspberry Pi are a static at
the surprise release of the new
Raspberry Pi 4 with a whopping 8
gigabytes ram yes 8 gigabytes that's
double the max memory they had until now
been available the Raspberry Pi for
launch just under a year ago and is a
very powerful little SBC but two things
about it were really lacking no emmc
storage capabilities in a maximum of 4
gigabytes RAM though 4 gigabytes is
still quite impressive for a little SBC
well emmc is still not available on the
Raspberry Pi it boasts double the
previous maximum amount of memory that
said go on are the days of the Raspberry
Pi being the $25 SBC the price is now
$75 u.s. and up here in Canada it cost
us a hundred and ten to order one plus
shipping this makes it the most
expensive Raspberry Pi ever released
so why the surprise when the Raspberry
Pi 4 was released an 8 gigabytes ddr4
package wasn't available but micron
stepped things up earlier this year
providing the necessary component for
the upgrade unlike its predecessors
whose SOC can support no more than 4
gigabytes RAM the processor used in the
Raspberry Pi 4 can technically support
up to 16 gigabytes of memory in total so
while eight gigabytes is incredible in
this space it's not the absolute max
we've got to take a quick break the
crypto corner and more of this week's
top tech stories are coming right up
anyway
you
welcome back to the Crypt opponent it's
been an exciting week the market cap is
around 270 billion US dollars but there
have been some interesting developments
when we're looking at the price in total
ten coins went up in this last week by
over 25 percent the leader being carried
on oh that went up almost 50 percent in
the last seven days a reason is that
they announced now that they're getting
serious was the upgrade and so it looks
like we're going to have shall be soon
on the live Network but others like
cells whose vest change Zuleika maker
they all went up over 25% and only one
coin went down by only 15% so overall it
has been a very good week from the
investment point of view but also if we
look into what happened in regards to
the currencies let's take a look at
Bitcoin the last three weeks after the
having the men pool is almost empty
again the transactions are confirming in
a very fast way
there has been no death spiral for the
miners even though we lost nearly 50
percent of the hash rate and but not all
bounced back nicely and the next
difficulty adjustment will be just 10%
down so beacon really works like a
clockwork at the moment here in 2.0 as
the next subject has been a delay of
course we're accustomed to that they are
now saying not July August they're
saying now this year but the interesting
thing is with phase zero which is the
implementation of proof of Stakes or the
staking and the minimum you need to have
is 32 aetherium to be a become a
validator of the network and so somebody
is analyzing how many wallets are there
was at least 32 ether in them and that
has been increasing over the last 12
months so people are getting
a series in becoming a validator next is
Gemini and Samsung are starting a
partnership whereby Gemini will be
supporting the efforts in the North
American market so Canada and USA if
you're interested in buying kryptos
through three years samsung telephone
cell phone Gemini is one of the series
and good exchanges so it's a trustworthy
exchange and that partnership will mean
a lot because it will bring kryptos to
the masses the same time a an
interesting wallet has been developed
one that doesn't need any connectivity
to the internet so unlike the treasure
and ledger this one and gray if it
doesn't it's currently being developed
but it has got already the highest
certifications it will be launched this
year and and it will be completely
disconnected from the internet so
there's another level of security that
you can have on on wallets the last
subject is there has been no movement in
regards to the investors so Gregg scale
investments which is a huge investment
company they are currently buying the
equivalent of one hundred fifty percent
of all new bitcoins said that are being
mined that's equivalent of 3.2 billion
u.s. dollars and that they purchased
recently in bitcoins that's a
significant investment I would say on
the other hand and then you've got Paula
Tudor one of the hedge fund gurus in the
US or even globally that is committing
to Bitcoin - on the other hand you've
got Goldman Sachs shooting against
Bitcoin although the arguments that
they're bringing are not really valid
it's like somebody just being wanting to
be negative and bringing arguments in
that regard so I'm I'm I'm positive
if I look into the market anyway that's
from me today I wish you a fantastic
week looking forward to see you all next
week again and back to the studio thank
you very much for watching bye thank you
Robert always so insightful now just a
reminder for those of you who are
viewing that we're not providing
financial advice here on the show but
rather we're sharing what's happening in
the cryptocurrency market and leaving it
up to you always remember if you're
going to trade cryptocurrency markets
are ever-changing and they're always
volatile so you should only spend what
you can afford to lose now back to Becca
in the newsroom Thank You Robbie
Microsoft has finally released Windows
10 version 2004 also known as the
Windows 10 May 2020 update and promptly
warmed users not to install it the
update adds new security features and
fixes for previous cumulative updates to
Windows 10 but it also includes a
plethora of bugs and issues this time
around even Microsoft has warned users
not to install the update as it's
causing severe problems like the blue
screen of death or your system might
also fail to restart after installing
the update after installing the update
windows 10 devices may be unable to
connect to more than one Bluetooth
device another bug causes Mouse input to
stop functioning and another makes it so
variable refresh rate no longer works in
most games especially those using direct
x9 always-on devices such as your
network adapter might cause the computer
to restart randomly and other issues may
result in a blue screen of death
needless to say this is a bad situation
for Microsoft and could be catastrophic
for those who are stuck working from
home right now without access to an IT
department to fix a botched update
Microsoft has already started working on
the problems and we expect a new update
to the update by mid-june in order to
safeguard your PC you should avoid
installing this update however if you
already installed it you can honest to
uninstall it to enjoy a more stable
version of Windows 10 if you're sick of
a nonsense head on over to linux mint
comm for a free permanent fix
speed a team from Menashe Swinburne at
RMIT University's logged a data speed of
forty four point two terabytes per
second at that speed you could download
more than 1,000 high-definition movies
or all thirteen seasons of category five
technology TV in under one second and
we'd upgrade our live stream to 16 K
just because we can the average UK
broadband speed is currently around 64
megabits per second so this would be
roughly 700,000 times faster than what
most people in the UK experience day to
day Australia lies in the middle of
global rankings for internet speeds and
show connections are a regular source of
complaints from users researchers said
they achieved the new record speed by
using a device that replaces around 80
lasers found in some existing telecom
hardware with a single piece of
equipment known as a micro comb the
micro comb was planted into and tested
outside the laboratory using existing
infrastructure similar to what - that
used by Australia's national broadcast
network the result was the highest
amount of data ever produced by a single
optical chip which are used in modern
fiber-optic broadband systems around the
world the Australian team hoped their
findings offer a glimpse into how
internet connections could look in the
future while the data speed for
outstrips far outstrips any reasonable
consumer need in today's world bill
kokorin lecturer in electrical and
computer systems at Monash University
said it could ultimately help transform
a wide variety of industries as modern
life continues to put increasing
pressure on bandwidth infrastructure mr.
Krekorian says what our research
demonstrates is the ability for fibres
that we already have in the ground to be
the backbone of communications networks
now and in the future he goes on to say
it's not just Netflix we're talking
about here this data can be used for
self-driving cars and future
transportation
and it can help the medicine education
finance and e-commerce industries as
well as enable us to read with our
grandchildren from kilometers away
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux'
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at patreon.com slash
category 5 from the category 5 TV
newsroom i'm becca ferguson fantastic
Thank You Becca
this is category 5 technology TV it's
always a pleasure having you here we've
got just a couple of moments left before
I wrap up the show so just a quick
little feature for you something that is
always on my mind is nostalgia you know
me I love retro gaming I love things
that remind me of days gone by and
Technology gone by and that's where
overtype comes in this is a website
service that you can try out absolutely
free at unique code comm slash
typewriter let's get started I'm just
going to hit start here and check out
what we can do ready to start typing oh
I didn't quite get there so just like an
old typewriter because I jammed up the
keys I'm gonna have to get over here and
let's see if I can fix that
perfect oh you guys remember when it was
like this it actually functions like a
typewriter got a type slowly you can
save your work you can print it whatever
you want to do it really has that
genuine look to it and you can mess with
settings and it will actually change the
way that it functions I've got the link
for that below for you it's just a
little bit of fun but hey it's also a
lot of it's a great way to be able to
create very realistic looking typewriter
images because you can screenshot that
now or you can go file print and use
your your browser's ability to export to
a file and then you can create cool
things for like blog headers or images
for the featured image maybe you want to
post something on Twitter and use an
image to make it stand out it gives you
that really kind of nostalgic look and
it's it's incidentally it kind of it
scratches that itch for nostalgia for me
as well again link is below check it out
it's called overtype and the address is
a little bit on the unique side so i've
got that link for you right down there
don't forget category five technology TV
is on twitter at category five TV I
personally am also on Twitter so at
robbie ferguson i will follow you back
so you can increase your fall account by
one as i incidentally increase mine as
well don't forget also as you can
imagine category 5 is on youtube you'll
find us
category 5 technology TV is our main
show and then we've got linux tech show
you hear me talking about it but that is
an easy to digest quick little way to
consume category 5 TV and it makes it a
really great to share as well because
you can just take those individual
snippets
and share those with your friends
anything that and on your social media
as you find things that that you really
so check out check out Linux tech show
on YouTube our website of course brings
all of our features together at category
five dot TV have a wonderful week
everyone again it's a pleasure having
you here thank you for your support not
only financially but also just in being
here and and tuning in it is so greatly
appreciated
I appreciate your subscribes on YouTube
I appreciate you following us on our
various social media channels all of
that stuff helps and we love having you
as a part of our community take care
everyone we'll see you again next week
