if you've been casting your ballot to
win a Kingston DataTraveler 2000 now
these things are awesome this is an
encrypted flash drive 64 gigs of storage
and it uses hardware encryption so you
just have to punch in your passcode here
and it will decrypt the drive and then
you plug it into your computer or your
TV or whatever device because there's no
software needed right it's all built in
the decryption the ability to decrypt
the data is built-in to the device in a
hardware level and you know that it's
safe because it also will erase your
data if you put your password in wrong
like ten times or presumably if someone
steals it from you and punches in or
wrong so it's super cool you got to
remember your own password but for the
for the person who finds it if you drop
this and it's got confidential data on
it and they start pushing buttons it
will wipe the keys which allow it to
decrypt so then the data can't be
recovered it's an awesome little device
this is like whether for business or
personal use whatever just keep it in
your pocket
it is fantastic we've got one of these
to give away right now but before I do
if you haven't cast your ballot yet all
you have to do is just email us right do
you remember the address it's contest
that category-five TV yes yeah she's got
a contest a category-5 TV just tell us
your name where you're from where you're
watching from how you're watching we'd
love to hear from you and with that
ballot we're gonna cast you into the
next straw but for those of you who have
cast your ballots so far we've got you
tonight so here we go
if you see your name you're in the
runnin oh yeah good luck all right Ron
hey Peter Richard yeah Scott hey Scott
Chad and Joel CGI graph of a data
traveller 2000 is Dean Myers Dean
congratulations you are the proud new
owner of a Kingston DataTraveler 2000
thanks for watching category-five
technology TV thanks for casting your
ballot and congratulations on winning
all you have to do dean is send us a
quick email just to let us know where we
should ship this to and we will send
that off in the mail this week
[Music]
[Applause]
