I heard the dog is exciting for another
coffee break
but what was going out and he's showing
off you showing up a weekday I should
have known that she gets a bit charity
she was often a good method I'm excited
to get back wha yeah I remember our
neighbor and they had a dog it was it
was always working when when they would
end every event at home when my mother
told after a little while I noticed that
it didn't work a softness it used my mom
had told me a few years ago that they
were the owners were fed of touch the
dog was always working when they were at
home so they doing a week and they train
the dog to stop working because it
didn't work them and when they were at
home because they used to yell at him
and he didn't like that so they started
their going out they did usually on down
the street and then they went in there
from the back door and when the door the
dog started working they went out after
in the front door and asked him to stop
so the doggy learned that it couldn't
trust that their owners were away when
they were he stopped working there
anything you could say kinda dog stop
our cake
okay the funny thing happened with Tara
did you like go broke me we going guys
Rob wages you ever go for josie's well a
tithe today about thing really and they
looked after the dogs in the bags from
the paper which totally works who talks
and you believe rather big dogs and one
of them was quite elderly and they
revered the Reverend to break up in in
our church got a little joke about a box
into the dog drop dead body don't update
and he had to do the funeral for the dog
had to bury the dog and able dog Congo
it was a magic dog show method to
adoption and joke about a elevation let
me keep you updated via we another
entity I was up they say women basically
who talk it is there was so kudos and
apologize to the Banach that there's a
few moaning are using on their front
door because I connected to a friend go
Angela Thank You Sonia subject going
back dogs going alone and my wife and no
doggy's as the Dordogne know he gives it
along the doors open my dog really ain't
said that no ichigo made every time did
the door which she just goes ballistic
and say oh we better on their individual
one worked on some bed going batteries
which age range of the village we could
only ever bail for died only name that
people can acquire expensive award up to
a bad surprise
both that's pride to it Aquila voltage
regulator and example research attribute
lead ads about 3.30 WordGirl will
release is about two version this one's
got a small battery and that's will
lithium battery which came after
something else with your idea that it's
a bad when the bag goes off we go got
off tremendous the battery takes over
for a while which is about as back on
the gate which he inside always a diode
in there
I think directly to other two words
which is uncharged in was we could go to
a utopia I know I could leave it on if
the bear goes off in the day sometimes
along with the door bell will ring no
idea cause ready million per this year
battery over
Elvis people I don't know I played was
ugly scooter but they have been there
now without logged on so that delegate
I've got a job you talk to that there's
a couple of dog show so she's there the
state ago you could charge it and that's
a match on the same time similar to what
Robbie yard did know what weeks ago you
know in the well agree to all the young
went Oh Bobby today would he do bear
surprised him as the wrong idea oh
nothing that one for Bill Bundy probably
and take their yellow one for the album
another door somewhere because we got
need the door I was a dog they installed
open the doubly sure yeah though I might
go I figure out the road traits of
rabbit and he said did a fool of
represent all three called out for me
and he goes in education radical day and
they've leveraged in their Sunday okay's
a rabbit we can't go back
let's go goes on really drive me in the
farm of our farmer
which are most of you trying to take the
dog the field trying to get him to come
on the game they do that make the dough
shooting and still do that big mitosis
do you have a baby did a nickel mitosis
John was over in England age of the
disease and aerobic population there and
to dig down like that they used to dig
10 like that still because they were in
a virtual world because I would rupture
and phone user for children with three
boys explosively he should be ravished
and he's aware of obliging members in
England people and a critical mix with
houses in Australia as well in white
every way yes fly I got problem I doubt
I went to the doctor one day a year
thanks a lot I got genetic Romeo I found
out
gggg primary channels and all's well
anyway let me go mom will give us of the
metal cylinder never work when they gave
you that key word of it could be a
money-back guarantee he told me back in
English his money back on a yet to give
me money back guarantee the bullying he
wet himself
[Music]
no it is just it is a flip that around
on top of the screen and it's just and I
just flipped it backwards
the back part which they replace realize
there's a project ended screw out for a
of putting amount or me to or stand or
little something if there's if you can
screw something on the understand or
some kinda just because of a piece of
their a piece of their copies mm
Alexander's going on show which will be
we should be everything forwarding irulu
time on on the - yeah yeah right
straight up I do think it's a matrix
they just tried to make mistakes first
and it's awkward time nails enjoy a UPA
USB dock don't go take that the problem
and they yeah yeah yeah the
powder day and there's a bad plastic
away ground day and they to repel each
other got any money the way they try
wind up not only guy no I couldn't cut
the focus very well bad I knew it was
bad side effects p.m. yellow we took it
off to home me and I just found a
picture on the web this is the camera
that I use only a - blue yeah so what I
do I just put it on top of the screen
and this back part at it is
on the back of this and it's quite quite
stable this way what Roy already told ya
and then you don't have to screw it on
anything you can just and maybe put it a
little down I know I have a server
downstairs in my basement and and I have
in my living room I have four computers
running I have a desktop computer where
one is suggest a file server and I have
my TV I have an a laptop an i7 Intel
laptop with the Cody running that I use
for my media center so and then I have a
1u rack server and desktop server in my
basement the desktop server is my am is
my my mail server and it really creates
they never seen I keep the power up in
his price I think you promised he told
me to destroy later was a veto hopefully
will attract it from you the Packers
often one pound away yeah
are you creator on it I mean I mean you
don't know the UPS to serve in and their
systems in my basement I have our ups up
in the living room but I'm
so object may as well my window
across the river which is called Carol I
should design this piece of land next
door
I am got baby trees on the never-fail
field
another field that three miles away
Bella money's about two three four miles
away there's a couple of the road dr.
Bailey
yeah the nice part of the living I leave
a machine in a similar location there is
a two houses nearby 200 meters away from
me on its side and then only on each
side of those again there is a kilometer
in each direction days the nice part is
that there I can do is bother by
anything I'm not seeing anything
I like anybody and there are in the end
and the road is easier dead end it ends
in the in a lake somewhat large like it
takes to drive from the bottom one side
along all related to alongside there to
the other world it takes a certain mean
is about in the cart so and the only aim
though they rode here there is a seven
or eight cabin so they are used during
during the summer so they in this
summertime there is some traffic about
there mostly that I can travel having
lived there thirty years in their City
moving move I would like to base right
here and I'd like to think of a
tightening the noose as one on a team
my college relation to my father new
revelations on a dining I'm sure yeah I
think I was actually sharing who I was
late but so why you know it's a
preaching you're like you don't preach
in my life yes
where parents are often in the lake 20
minutes
most of the end of the lake you can read
about boat and then you can go on the
lake after fishing and they often do
that in the summer what to look for and
I try to I have no idea yeah but but I
think there is a drought they usually is
a chart in Generation X revolution I
with a minor which cake very old regime
is very very LD oldest one in the world
push bills and on the same day and every
well the bankers a matador and efficient
Fortran was damaged on the invention
they oppose it because I love that we
will get also war life as well with the
heavens and handsome man going and move
folks and enjoy matter with ultimately
them and a lot of different things to
say and and cows and cows to come out of
the river
in stripes with you guys I'm just
you mentioned birds there is a big bird
that he said that he says thing
summers understand we try to look at the
name the birds that are on the future it
says on the English Wikipedia it's a
common crime is taking this land go
below makes my detail and I'm still make
it driving and they also have animals in
the winter there is a there were two
Elks moving and a small rain they're
moving in the fields there it is kept
poking and poking at the snow and
locating the the gas and underneath and
they're also protected I like to take
liquid you like could you do that
Oh would you be in trouble if you
capture right there the rain there is
most likely open and owned by someone
have there is not too far north of
header is they are hurting rain there so
I'm guessing that those who have been
there
I'm sure that there is the next
there is a change them up there and
that's as well which unfortunately come
the weather and the cooperation we have
it required you to mama
they they prefer their separate which to
be a picture time of a some of them
think Felicia's working like this
without English way of saying things
which we're walking down the other
banker for the Kingfisher once or twice
usually - quick quick blue blur Nichols
cone with the Kingfisher and then I
recommend England better think I know
this day I'm living here I lived there
for two days when I've woke up one
morning and I heard a noise that I never
had before
and then I had to find out what on the
earth I have never said that the bird is
quite large
it's
besides which is close to this ice was
as warm the White Swan and there are
almost as big as those so they're quite
high
we are yelled once one can do a lot of
damage if we can now just wanted to do a
lot of damage to because I can get quite
a play and they could get one honestly
we used to keep them again fell yeah
which was like a like a big big like a
big chicken or what get and Banky tax as
well and the guinea fowl is to walk
where 9,000 and we should go and get the
eggs let's go look for the eggs but they
disappeared went after him and we think
that assembly took a couple room the
yellow floral from where they were
nowadays ladies a big one afternoon when
they and would be present remember
Sultan are they in a story when I live
in England ami am chef I was walking up
the road and Zuckerberg Moda that that's
why Guilford in a day to be quite rural
and walking up the road in an ID number
grouchy doorman
I'm tired pretty bad it's not the best
we were I pretty pretty bad and walk up
the road and I told his ground laying
next to me that it'll give the dog
carried on and my cousin Terry cocoon
you and you to take the leg up the road
did you know well that was no she lives
of folks if some new black the roads
will be up the road actually afterwards
of shops beginner it was some time he
said it was on a main road as well Nikki
didn't care it's English engineers and I
think they are all are people with a
Brando
yeah I think that it's time and the time
is come to wrap up even if there's no
just the two of us so for those watching
the on-demand diversion we will be back
tomorrow
sorry we didn't have an introduction
today but we assumed never be more
joining and there yeah so we will see
you again tomorrow hopefully we'll be
able beer and a few other people so and
hey all Tomorrow People
bye
