this I have a short link for you cap
five dot TV slash scale and let's open
it up and I have opened it and I've
paired it I received this yesterday so
I've already used it Weiss
okay so I've stood on it twice so what's
different about the Ren foe smart scale
I'm calling the smart scale they do not
call it that that's not what they be
meant it's not just a scale okay what so
okay so why do they not call it a smart
scale because it's like well you see
these metal pieces yes so you can't use
it when you're wet don't get out of the
bath and stand on it make sense this is
an electronic device and when I step on
it with my feet touching all of these
diodes I feel a little like dr. ho in my
foot oh just look at that Leeson sation
okay i'm gonna show you the app that
that it's actually paired with so you
can see how incredible this is just I'm
looking down at my notes so they they
call it bioelectric impedance analysis
so using these bio electric sensors it's
able to track a whole lot more than your
standard scale okay so for 35 bucks this
tracks ready yep okay my weight
obviously body fat percentage BMI water
percentage hmm you like I can tell how
much water weight I'm carrying fat free
body weight what would anyway if I
didn't have all this battle yeah
skeletal muscle muscle mass bone mass
visceral fat subcutaneous fat protein
basal metabolism and body age it Kida
tells me all that really yeah from your
feet from my feet for 35 bucks so of
course it's much more than just weight
huh so I'm just gonna move the box out
of the way here just kind of right over
there so it looks like that just like a
scale right yes so funny knowing that
it's glass I'm like I wouldn't want to
step on that because I break it a little
it'll take like I think
like 300 pounds or something like that
here's a quick correction this smart
scale is made using five millimeter
thick tempered glass it can support the
weight of up to 396 pounds or 180
kilograms you want to like observe the
manual make sure I did check that that
it would take weight yep and obviously
will it does have some support in the
middle there I did see one review where
somebody had broken it and I really felt
when I read that review like they didn't
read the warnings the the that you'd
have to step down you have to step down
on each of these sensors yeah I feel
like they must have stepped like smashed
down in the middle and cracked it or
something right that's just kind of how
it felt it certainly feels solid anyways
so with all those things that it's able
to track I'm able to find out like my my
body's age yes so yesterday when I first
tested myself I was 44 years old for
four years older than I'm supposed to be
that's not what's not bad but it's also
not great it's not 60 I kind of want to
do it except that I don't want to put my
bare feet on your scale well and I don't
want you to either because I don't want
it to change you're doing so good ruff
this is only you that can use it when
your wife couldn't stand but you multi
could you set up multiple users on that
scale that's a beautiful thing yes you
can okay however I'm holding my phone
right now it's paired right now yeah so
if you stepped on this it would go into
my hay because I have to take my socks
off and step with my bare feet on yours
I would be weird to me
it is multi-user though which I thought
was cool because it's cool yeah my wife
could use it if she needed it or wanted
to but she has no use for it she's
gorgeous so I'm gonna just actually
bring up the app for you and I want to
show you what what the setup process was
like it was absolutely brain dead simple
to get this thing paired into my phone
so jumping into that
all I had to do was just open add the
device
step on the scale once and then it
detected the device itself cool now this
is gonna be embarrassing I'm gonna step
on the scale and you can see it's
spinning there
it's zapping my feet right now so there
I am 191 pounds rise 191 oh that's my
starting point so what that tells me I'm
gonna change modes here and I can
actually do this live so that you two
can interact with me so this morning I
weighed myself again and I'm a little
bit lighter so I like my morning weight
so I brought up my weight and and I look
like I'm doing really really well I'm
down 3.2 pounds from last night Wow so
it's already tracking so by doing
morning and night it's actually tracking
those trends and where I'm at throughout
the day twice a day yeah to weigh
yourself yeah once in the morning once
when I'm getting my PJs on kinda thing
getting ready for a show so what's
interesting here in the app is that now
that it's gathered all this information
look at all that so not just my weight
but BMI body fat and so on so if I
actually touch my weight it shows me
where I fall on the scale where I should
be and where where I am right now
right so again that doesn't tell me to
lose weight
that shows me what is a healthy weight
considered considering where I should be
with my height and my my age right could
you use that and have displays without
pairing it to a smart device yeah you
can use it just just a standard scale
like if you want to just measure your
weight yeah absolutely
but but I wanted to do so much more yes
I've clicked on body fat here and it
shows my body fat is 24.5% which is just
on I'm gonna be a glass-half-full guy
and say that that's just on the edge of
acceptable I'm not gonna mention
that's just on the edge of obesity but
that's unacceptable to obesity yeah
that's a big just really mean so I want
to actually bring it down I'm I'm gonna
feel really really good if I ever get
down to like the fitness area or in the
middle low acceptable range okay so that
kind of stuff helps me to just kind of
start setting goals so then I can click
on all of these things and I see my
metabolic age is 44 and it tells me the
ideal physical body age which today is
43 by the way I lost a year overnight I
had a really good sleep great but that's
only tracking after to two steps on the
scale so it's gonna get more and more
accurate as I go ideal physical body age
is two thirds of the actual age so that
again doesn't tell me what to do doesn't
tell me what I should be doing it just
gives me Robbie
the guy who doesn't have time to go to
the gym some kind of goal so I can see
that okay I would love to get down to 42
within the next couple of weeks right
and and start and and start seeing what
it takes to do those things yes I can
tell you as somebody who has a smart
scale that it is very motivating that's
all I wanted motivation and some amount
of direction yes it's like knowing that
hey I should try to get my age down to
in the 30s alright that'd be amazing
can you imagine so each of these items
has something else like if I click on
muscle mass I have high muscle mass been
working out as you can tell and and all
that kind of stuff is here in the
interface it just makes it really really
accessible really easy for me to
understand as a kind of a noob now in
order to figure out like your BMI did
you have to put in parameters such as
your height yes okay so there was some
configuration on that end yes which was
surprisingly simple because his birthday
height which I just took off my driver's
license it allowed me to switch between
centimeters and choice okay right so it
was really quick to set up really easy
to pair and awesome go so I'm really
pleased with that I think that's going
to have a big impact on my
to find and create some goals for myself
okay
now you said you wanted to learn more
about your health yeah other than just
seeing these stats yeah what does that
mean well the goals that it shows so if
I fire back up my app here so the the
fact that for example it shows this
graph here that shows that if I was 165
I'd be on the high end of normal they
use the Tri normal but the the healthy
weight yeah for my age and height so
that can be for me a goal yes right
sorry I guess what I'm the leap I'm
trying to get to is how do you make
change there because if personally how
do I make my standing on that you're
looking at it going I've tried oh it's
hopeless you know I've tried things in
the past but now I've got something
that's tracking me like how do you look
at that reinforcement I think so
that's my that's what it's the fact that
when you make choices like okay instead
of eating pasta noodles I'm gonna need
zucchini for dinner how did you know
right and then you weigh yourself and
you're like oh wait that worked or one
meals not gonna make a difference no so
it's a long-term and lifestyle changes
and things like that for example I'm
gonna walk my dog a little more often
right okay so just getting out and doing
that kind of stuff right um I didn't
part me a fair bit of walking over the
holidays and really enjoyed walking
while my daughter shopped so she was
doing her Christmas shopping and I
walked and walked and walked through the
mall at work so just a very simple way
to do something but yeah you mentioned
zucchini yes so my wife was making
spaghetti last night and I had already
told her that was going to try to reduce
my car my carb intake because I read
some scientific studies that taught and
again not medical advice I don't know
all this stuff but I'm learning okay so
this for me
I learned that my body is burning
carbohydrates because I'm taking in so
many carbs so then I'm not burning any
fat right but if I reduce my
carbohydrate intake it doesn't have the
carbs to burn so it's going to be
burning some of my body fat so I'm going
to reduce my body fat and get a little
healthier so that's something I want to
try to do is try to bring down my carp
so two examples from yesterday that were
really really easy so we were having
spaghetti for supper so instead of
spaghetti the sauce was already made and
pardon me I just simply spiralized the
zucchini and I sauteed it with some
garlic powder some olive oil and it was
really really good as a spaghetti
alternative right it was like spiralized
so big long stringy noodles of zucchini
I know you don't like zucchini do you
gotta try this dude you gotta try it it
was really really good so I didn't take
any carbs on that can you spiralize
pizza and just didn't see one so then
later later on in the night pardon me
and I've had this tickle all week but so
forgive me it's going around yeah
later on in the night I wanted a snack
and I started looking at the chip bags
and the carbs are really high like 30
grams 35 grams of serving of potato
chips dehydrated chickpeas are way
better chickpeas okay I've also heard
kale chips so these are just little ways
that just by being conscious of it Jeff
so I'm conscious of it so I'm starting
to make decisions where I say okay I'm
not gonna have the chips because I've
already had enough carbs today so I'm
not gonna have 30 35 grams of carbs
right and that's it I'm not counting no
I don't I'm not counting carbs I'm not
counting cholesterol or anything like
that
I'm just saying okay if it's I'm aiming
for like 50 or less carbs per day at
grams and so if I'm approaching that
then I'm just not gonna have chips right
right fair enough so okay this as you
mentioned kind of gives me positive
reinforcement motivation exactly it lets
me challenge myself in a competitive way
okay so I'm competing with myself to say
okay can I do this I'm not start with
myself or anything like that I'm just
I've got information about myself that I
can now use to try to get healthier
that's my goal that's what I want to try
so we join me for that and over the
course of the next several months I
would imagine I mean let's see where I
go so I've set my target weight here as
150 it's I think that's a fair goal
I think you're gonna look skinny at 150
I think so it says that the high end of
normal is 165 for me so if I got to 150
that would be insane apparently my ideal
body weight is 192 okay I think I would
look incredibly ill at 192 mhm I am
above my ideal body weight too but I'm
happy with where I'm at right like my
ideal body weight I think is 113 or 114
or something for my height I would have
to lose almost 75 pounds to get to that
yeah like could you imagine taking 75
pounds off me like I think I would look
not healthy hmm that's a lot how much
would you say you weighed when we met
each other a lot younger back I was 151
I think I was 205 okay yeah so 191 would
see me yeah when I look back at photos
of when Jen and I were dating yeah I was
like the two 205 and like the cheekbones
were in and like I was quite I don't
know skinny is the right word but
compared to what I am now it was like I
would you know the wind bloweth Jeff's
gone okay try to go like 10 pounds Lord
oh my goodness we are talking weight
just for those of you who are wondering
on five foot eight so you can kind of
get an idea where I fall at 1 191 pounds
or 187 so I clicked on fat free body
weight which i think is kind of
interesting like what if I didn't have
that extra fat right and it says that I
would be 141 point eight so that's kind
of I don't know my fat free body wait
hold on let me just what is fat free
body weight then am I not right you're
right you're right it's weird the fat
free body weight could but it's not
normal like because it's fat that's like
if I had no fat okay that's crazy
Wow but that doesn't make any sense
that's just your bones no well the 15%
so stick
pounds on their fat all right it's hella
good so I'm learning how it works yours
is like $100 less than mine and down the
scale this guy yeah if it find it
interesting to the Lord before like I'm
gonna look at my dime 54.5% water like
that shows me that so anyways that's
enough about this guy here you get the
gist of it it's I'm not talking about
losing weight I'm talking about the
technology that I am kind of
inadvertently talking about losing
weight cuz that's my endgame but the
technology that's gonna help me to do
that to stay healthy well your show like
a graph yeah it does
yeah more than one graph it shows like
so I can click on BMI and it will show
me the graph for BMI it will weight and
it will show me the graph for weight
yeah same kind of deal same deal here's
the question I have yes why do you feel
the little electrical pulse well I
imagine is that explained well these
these electrodes so two of them touch
your your left foot two of them touch
your right foot right but you said you
felt like that doctor hall has sensors
right like electrical it ascends an
electrical actually sending an
electrical pulse I imagine so it must it
has to it doesn't hurt that's exactly
what I'm thinking right pregnant or
pacemaker don't don't use this okay
interesting children shouldn't use this
alright so quickly it syncs with Samsung
health apple health Fitbit and google
fit app and it was again super easy to
set up and pair with with the with my
phone and and that was really really
breezy and I think that pretty much you
know covers everything that that we need
to talk about with that other than the
fact that from someone like myself who
really knows nothing about physical
fitness to an athlete this thing is for
you like it's it it has modes that you
can set for a your various athletic type
and it will it will be applicable for
you
[Music]
