it's coffee break time but copies not
ready over here yet and Robbie's doing
dishes I'm making the coffee but he's
gotta make coffee for everybody right I
wasn't sure if I was gonna get here
because the cleaners were in this room
because of course with everything
they've stepped up the cleaning so mmm
white often I'm like locked out of rooms
as they do the sanitation and stuff so I
guess I'm the first to soil this room
ass always someone has to be first right
well yeah usually it's the kids but here
at work it's me mm-hmm
everybody having a good day yes
now I surely you're not the only one in
the office today Robbie am i right or
not
no but we're socially distant so we have
a quarantine set up so we're none of us
are ever really in the so I'm actually
on the top floor everybody else is on
the lower floor oh come in my office I
keep the door closed during the day okay
closest to the coffee maker of course
fluffy maker is way upstairs and and
I've joked about if I if I put it on my
desk downstairs it makes more sense
practically speaking because I go
walking through the quarantine zone but
then when would I get my steps you know
what I'm saying that's it they'd only
get how many floors just a one floor
between this two floors two floors okay
yeah okay yeah okay how a distribution
power distribution oh here we go Bo this
is what you and I have been talking
about man oh yeah is that kind of the
similar kind of thing as to what what Bo
and I were talking about I guess so
this is a thing called a rerun and what
these are these are all fuses right
these are your standard automotive fuses
like you were talking about yesterday
same the same exact thing yeah
and these are what are called anderson
connectors one for input and that's
protected by out and up you can read
that that 40 amp fuse can you be worried
Wow
right thanks how many 40 minutes 12 okay
yeah talk about yeah it runs it runs
this is built for oh yeah ham radio
most of us ha have sort of standardized
on on this format these Anderson
connectors of all my rigs all use
anderson connectors now any finally if
I'm setting up for like feel bay or some
sort of external event this is what I'll
use I literally I didn't plug into it
away we know so yeah you could you could
easily get anderson connectors which are
what these are yeah
for all your s pcs and just literally
plug them up and then you fuse them away
you want this is gonna a 25 25 25 20 and
then a 5 and a 1 here and where's the
where's the power come in from yeah yeah
is this one is it on one of the answer
oh you okay right and then that
distributes power to all over rest
brilliant so you can do five boards with
that particularly absolutely yes now
this is the smallest unit probably out
of all on something you could easily you
know larger units that that can handle
more more connectors and more power
supplies it is entirely up to you that's
cool yeah see that's exactly the thing
the one that I got has 12 terminals and
they are screw terminal so you'll use
like like the I don't know what you call
them the like spoon can spade connectors
yeah something like that
and then you just screw them in but
it'll do 12 boards and the power
terminals are actual pegs on the end so
they're separate from these from the
fuses so each unit has its own fuse
yours is different because the input
actually has a fuse as well so you've
got like 40 amps of protection
and then it breaks it down from there
that's really cool yeah and it looks
exactly that use you see in the car
battery yeah well you know what guys I'm
gonna I'm gonna be able to do a similar
demonstration for you tomorrow because I
got a notification that my fuse unit has
already arrived so okay I I can't figure
out how Amazon is prioritizing things
right now
because they say that they're you know
me really the most yeah most most
important stuff through the pandemic
that's the stuff that gets shipped first
well it was just yesterday I mentioned
Bo and I were talking about the fuse
panel on Monday night and here it's
already arrived
meanwhile you know mini Marsh is here
hey yeah watch me eat this this is good
TV right look at that beautiful sit up
right there are you actually speaking
through that I should be alright what's
what's for lunch what you go what do you
have got ramen over here no it's too
much I just got a latte oh just a latte
my latte with a spoon don't listen to
Robbie you can ignore him don't worry
about hey I'm limiting okay kind of I've
been maintaining 178 so I'm not I'm not
going up I'm not going down I'm just
trying to maintain right now that's all
yeah and then I'm gonna see how that
goes and then I'm gonna try to drop
another 10 pounds or so and
and see how that goes but just being
careful and mine and what I eat how much
I guess literally just taking cards out
of your diet allowed you to lose the way
you didn't change anything else that's
impressive that's a really Scotch
instead of beer yeah you know so that's
that's really it but not oh sorry what's
that bill just no vodka
well vodka you typically have to mix
with something like soda right so let's
say you gotta get rid of some things you
gotta you got to put some orange juice
in here you got to put some coca-cola in
it or something so then all this long
because of carbs what vodka vodka vodka
made from potatoes is not so this kerbs
vodka yeah yes it makes the potatoes
right so it's got carbs in it doesn't it
I wouldn't know the carbs because the
sugar is converted to alcohol yes good
point yeah yeah
crystal head vodka in a skull bottle oh
yeah so that's it's from there it's Dan
Aykroyd's distillery Oh local stores aux
yeux heads
what is the 48 M for I mean that that's
a household dryer what would you be
running that needs 40 amps that's the
input right yes that's correct
yes but that's 48 whoops can't take me
anywhere I'll tell you what let me do
this again yeah okay so that
the input here is 40 Empire at 12 volts
okay that power the team put here is
distributed to all the RS in this class
yes sir so here's my theory bad thank
you that would work does that 40 amp
work as a pseudo surge suppressor so if
you suddenly got a snake no it's a fuse
that's all it is just it's an automotive
fuse just like it would die right it
would like cut off the power to the
boards if it exceeded 40 amps oh yeah
but you'd have to draw more than 40 amps
through through the connectors for okay
I'm learning and learning but more
likely one of the lower amperage fuses
would blow before the 40 amp point does
okay after that we have to pull a total
load I mean there's 225 amp fuses right
so theoretically you could try to pull
25 amps from each of these connectors
mmm that would be 50 amps that would
blow these fuses might hold on but would
certainly so does that does that protect
your mains from tripping that the idea
yeah well you're feeding this you're
feeding this from a 12 volt source the
car got at least four not one okay right
right you're not pulling this from mine
doesn't like an arc welder but well yeah
but that would be well you're thinking
agamotto you're thinking 40 amps at 110
volts right yeah right this is 12 volt
this is 12 volts so you're not going to
be running knock welder from this making
me having to do math in my head
1.2 amps at 120 volts yes something like
that
okay so yeah here's some more geekery
for you Robbie the pine time yeah so I
was messing around with my program that
that wrote that that drew that watch
face because I was trying to figure out
I think I've talked
that this before and stop me if I have I
will be happy to talk about something
else but I was mentioning that the
minute hand and the second hand I would
be okay with it jumping one second to
the next second okay make sense cut but
I can't do that with the hour hand right
hand has to move more incrementally than
that it would it would look pretty
jarring at the hour hand jump from one
minute to the next
might only that I think I would have
trouble reading the time if it was like
11:58 and our hand was pointed at 1100
yeah exactly
yes precisely yeah so the yeah my hand
has to move at least every minute and
probably more incrementally than that so
I ran the so I ran a program to figure
out what the XY coordinates would be for
each of the locations the from the
center to where the our hand would be
right so because if the our hand moves
around I've said for 360 degrees which
is what you know Peter and I talked
about for 360 degrees figure out what
with the XY coordinates were and they
weren't making any sense and so it turns
out at least on gtk which is the UI
toolkit that I'm using to best thing the
12 o'clock position is directly out to
the right it is it's like it's at the
three o'clock position so if I only draw
draw the twelve o'clock at the three
o'clock position and then it would draw
five more minutes
counting down this way yeah so the whole
clock face is turned 90 degrees so I've
got a yeah just a bit messed up that I
think that's accident and literally just
an orientation issue on the on that were
a workspace now I'm gonna have to figure
out how to how to translate around 90
degrees so the watch face is the correct
area
you have to start eating your watch like
this well I could just swap the x and
y-axes right
that might work I'm afraid it'll go into
the negatives if I do that I'll think
about I'll have to think about that well
just draw it that way well maybe not
grainy numbers and let you figure out
what the time yeah look there are all
kinds of solutions I literally found
this at like I live in a clock last
night and that was the point that I said
I'm done I'm going home what's it you
mean two o'clock last night right well
yeah I know I know how to fix it it's
just I literally I literally found that
last night and I said I'm done with this
I'm not playing with this anymore
tonight
yeah but that was what I found so I'll
have some more fun with that probably
tonight because if I can stay awake that
long
hey does anybody want to do you want
some good category 5 news yes
ok category 5 is live in one week from
today broadcasting from Studio E and I
got ahold of a government official
through our local City office they
directed me to a toll-free number got
them on the phone and talked to them
about our construction situation and
they've informed me that week
and within certain limitations we can
have our contractor come to the studio
and get started on some of the
construction work so that leavings like
close this your permits yeah well we
don't need permits because it's not
non-structural it's just strictly like
they're building things like the stage
and the conduit and trust that's going
to be mounted to the drop ceiling for
the lighting all that kind of stuff has
to be built oh it's a framing okay no no
that's all done luckily we had that done
ahead of time so it's painted in
everything but we had to halt like they
can't go in and build the stage for
example which is you know that's kind of
a bummer considering we're live in a in
a week but but what we can do now where
we had previously had to halt everything
he will be able to come in and do things
like perhaps building the truss
perhaps putting up the backdrops on the
wall those kinds of things stuff that is
not going to be considered construction
but still needs to be done so he won't
be able to build the stage for example
but he'll be able to do some of the some
of the fixtures and things like that
maybe there's an electrical wiring you
have you drilled any holes through any
load-bearing studs yet I mean through
the wall yeah our server rack you see
that cutaway you see the cutaway in the
studio for the server rack yeah turns
out that is because those are
load-bearing block walls that's why it's
there oh yeah so so I don't know if you
ever noticed but the coax for the
Internet actually hangs down from the
ceiling in there because we can't pull
it in through the wall so it's actually
hanging down so the the Installer had to
find a break in the bricks above and the
pub feed his fish down yeah punch a hole
through the roof so it's basically
feeding in between two blocks our coax
so we won't be able to a lot of wiring
in there it's okay to duck blew in there
so it's very hard to see any detail
through yeah
yeah yeah I thought I put some LEDs in
there make it look nice as well so of
course oh cool and then that reminds me
of the whole craziness with Amazon
shipping it's like our water cooler I
ordered it this is the water dispenser
because we don't have any running water
it arrived the next day and the the 1u
server the the case that I ordered for
the for the the single board computers
that arrived today so along with the
fuse panel in the fuses and everything
else so so it looks like things are
gonna move forward quicker now that you
know I guess people are getting into the
new routine I think things are gonna
start pushing along but I sent an email
to the contractor and I'm hoping he'll
get back to me and say yes let's do this
and then we can have things like that
mainly the backdrop on the wall and
stuff like that I'm not going to be
hanging anything myself I want it done
properly and I don't want shelves at a
45 degree angle so I think I just don't
like it at all I told I told the
contractor I said look if you ever need
any help with your computers I'm the guy
to call if I ever need help putting up
shelves or whatever else I will call you
I'm not even going to cut it works and I
love that I love that mindset because
remember studio studio c2 studio D it
was a nightmare I had to do all that
work and and our team had to like rip
the place apart I was watching some of
those old videos of the move into studio
D and how it took four months to
renovate it and it was a brutal it was
brutal so moving into a place and being
able to say okay you do everything it's
a really good feeling so I'm just doing
all the wiring that's all but I will be
drilling holes tonight and Kickstarter
Kickstarter viewers will see that on the
flog because I need to get the cables
for the
cameras I have to get them from the
studio into the producers office so I do
have to put a couple of two-inch holes
in the wall and I'll just put them off
to the side so that he can build around
those with the conduit later so spoiler
alert Rand hauls or squeals oh
definitely round yeah just so you drill
through it yeah I'm gonna use a hole saw
and then I'm gonna cut off like a 12
inch piece of PVC to put in it so that
I'm not putting the the cables on cut
drywall took out the power in in baby
because it oh and so we just called it a
hole in the wall yeah
but I'm thinking your contractor if he
if he squeezed the hallway out he could
make a nice wooden you know like a
window frame I surround it oh and what
he's going to do is he's actually going
he's going to build a conduit that goes
from the studio from the producers
office into the stage it's actually
gonna go to the stage so all the cabling
is going to be completely hidden along
the baseboard at the side of the studio
and then it's going to come out
underneath the stage so any wiring we
need to do we'll just lift the stage up
and do it under there and then put the
stage back down and it's it's all
completely hidden so all our cameras
yeah we're gonna have Keystone jacks for
the cameras at the front of the stage so
we can plug in the cameras directly to
that we don't have to run cables across
the floor and all that kind of stuff
bill you remember what all the cables
across the floor we're like so has an
impression of that too you mentioned
keystone panel before
what's a keystone jack is that one of
those big four connect the jacks at the
camera uses or is LPM Keystone is is
like a module
I'm standard I suppose okay so so you
can buy a like a faceplate that will
have to Keystone holes or for Keystone
holes or six Keystone holes and then you
choose what you want the jack to be so
it could be a keystone Ethernet it could
be a keystone HDMI or Keystone banana
plug or whatever and then you just snap
that in and now on the faceplate from
aaja HDMI yeah it's a module so you've
got HDMI Ethernet audio you can have all
that on the on the keystone panel so
okay okay I think that we could as part
of the construction said is mounted
camera somewhere that takes a picture
every 12 seconds and then you can add
your a small to minute short fast and
see see see the states being built in
just a minute so we have wise cam setup
and it has been set up who's barking
that's that's my dog we've got a guest
coming over the one time you want quiet
everybody has to make noise oh I'm sorry
burning under the stage okay so I've got
a wise camp an not a wise camp an just a
wise ham - and it's all boo I set it up
at Studio D when and this whole thing
went down so I set it up for 10 second
time lapse and it's been shooting so it
shot the entire process of folding up
studio D and it is now shooting the main
studio area at Studio e nice in ten
second increments so so that video
we'll be part of the Kickstarter vlog
when this is all done and it will indeed
be a hyperlapse of the of the build
process but it starts with the teardown
of Studio B and we already have all that
footage window was the camera running
when the truck was when you'd loaded up
the truck and you were driving from
Studio to studio E or not for the drive
oh no no no that was for the hyperlapse
for the hyperlapse the camera remained
behind so I actually had to keep the
Internet up and running at studio D up
until the very last moment because it
was recording the hyperlapse so yeah I
did but it requires internet for me to
be able to program the hyperlapse
oh because it's an app right so so I
wouldn't record when we're not there I
would only record when we're about to do
something so so after the move was all
the cleanup and getting rid of
everything else so you'll see me in
there on the hyperlapse we've been
mopping the floors and doing everything
else right so so that's all part of it
so there was more going on there even
after the move you know that Marsh man
is going to be looking at that with a
ruler to make sure that you guys saw the
move move we did our best but there were
moments where we had oh catch ourselves
how did I get that reputation because
every time that you know Jeff Weston and
Robbie were at the studio I'm gonna
blame it on the fisheye but you would
never do that would you Bosch man that's
been driving me nuts with all this this
is the painting - coming to shop in
their pajamas it's like it's some
clothes on at least
they're coming to shop at Home Depot for
their essentials and appliances and
their patio furniture and stuff in their
pajamas are they at least nice pajamas
they can get away with it if they're
nice pajamas I'm used to the yoga pants
I'm used to the track suits
but yeah the pajamas are really new to
me know them right the minimum dress
code at Home Depot is you know ready
jeans and flannel shirts because that's
what you do you you know where around
the house you know so you're saying I
can't just show up in my housecoat with
a set of sandals on my feet well it's
Wednesday so I'm gonna be at the studio
kind of getting things I'm gonna be
putting some things together getting
everything wired in for sound and I'm
gonna start shooting video for next
Wednesday's show so that's pretty
exciting and and I will be back for
another coffee break tomorrow so hope
you'll join us see everybody
