[Music]
come back for the cryptic corner of your
well this week I'd like to focus on
information if you've been more than one
week with this in this industry and
you've post around YouTube or any other
news outlets you'll have seen that there
is a lot of different information out
there and most of that is misleading
yeah you've got those maximalists that
are pretending that their coin or token
is the best one and that everything else
is pretty bad you have got those that
are shilling coins so they're trying to
sell you something and a lot of people
also have got no clue what they're
talking about so this week I'd like to
focus on exactly that subject I've been
in this industry since 2015 and what
you'll see now is a collection of those
YouTube videos and podcasts that I
follow on a regular basis you'll see the
table at the end of this video and it
will be tabled with the name off of the
podcast or YouTube video and then in the
case of YouTube I also added the
subscribers so that you can find it
easier in case there's somebody
pretending to be that youtuber so let's
start with it
crypto 101 it's a podcast it's two guys
then are doing interviews and one every
two or three days
they're fantastic those interviews
because they're neutral they don't
pretend to be threatening or anything
like that they're just neutral they're
really kind kind and they get the
information that you as a user would
like to hear so crypto 101 fantastic
podcast next one is Ivan on tech so
that's for us here at category 5 an
interesting one because he focuses on
the coding and programming side he does
seven days a week a YouTube video he's
one of the leaders in this industry in
regards to programming and coding the
third one is Andreas Antonopoulos
he is one of the oh geez in the Krypton
industry 2014 he did a presentation in
front of the Canadian Senate he does
probably five or six YouTube videos a
week and the nice thing for you is that
he categorizes them so it's not just
talking about everything he categorizes
them so that it's easy for you to find
or see if it's something that's of
interest to you or not next one is
crypto whereby the O is a zero it's not
an O it's a zero it's a guy called Omar
BAM really nice guy has been in this
industry for a no H long time knows
everybody and has got fairly good news
he does it also around every two or
three days mmm fillet is crypto bud whoo
I read very high because he is coming
from the trading traditional trading of
traditional finance point of view and he
does fantastic analysis on coins and
tokens and projects it really goes into
detail with us and analyzes them and and
it's very good what he does followed is
Laura shin I would say she's the only
real journalist in this industry and
when she has got somebody that she
interviews those interviews go in depth
and in a really professional so I love
to listen to Laura shins podcasts crypto
daily it's the next one
he is the fungi of this industry if
you're interested in memes combined with
some information then he's the right guy
for you if you want to enlighten your
life a little bit then yes definitely go
with crypto daily the modern investor is
somebody that never shows his face he
sits somewhere in Europe and he reads
the news as he finds them on all those
news heartless oz left us outlets that
exists he does it very well he
also gives his own opinion on those
yeah the modern invest on next one is
Stefan laverra it's not somebody if you
want to geek out that's the right person
for you behind Andreas Antonopoulos he I
would say he is the one who has got the
most detailed knowledge of products
wallets exchanges everything he does
interviews and he has always also the
top people lined up so it's definitely
Rivera for the technical people box
mining next one is also technical he was
a programmer game programmer he's based
in Hong Kong and that's also very good
analysis of koto Constantine's the
moment he mixes a lot of news from Hong
Kong and China in regards to the virus
that is currently going around and but
when he goes to crypto his knowledge is
very good and also unbiased last but not
least is data - I would say he's the
best one doing technical analyst
analysis so if you're into technical
analysis then data - is the right person
he has got a very good knowledge huge
follow base and knows knows the market
also very well so all those here that I
just mentioned are those that I am
watching on a regular basis I read all
those as mutual people that really know
what they're talking about so that's the
ones that I recommend to you and as you
will see in a second you'll have that
table behind me so you don't have to
write things down anyway I wish you a
great week all the best see you next
week and stay safe bye
thank you Robert
just a reminder for you viewing at home
we are not giving financial advice here
on the show however we're just giving
you the facts and letting you run with
it keep in mind though that the
cryptocurrency market is always changing
always evolving and is always volatile
so we suggest only invest what you can
afford to lose
