this is the Amazon echo dot the the the
one that doesn't have the built-in clock
is the one that I have and this thing
sounds great it works great and it's
fantastic but you've got a wire that
comes out of the back for power and it's
gonna take up like death space or a
counter space or something like that
Jeff where is yours residing right now
ours is in the kitchen sitting on the
windowsill actually okay so plug right
beside the windowsills so that's ideal
we have maybe you know half a foot of
cord yep and so it runs behind the
silverware and then it sits right on the
windowsill and it's perfect it's not
anyway and it's it's got nice acoustics
bouncing off the window we use it for
music in the kitchen all the nice that
does sound really really good but what
if your plug isn't right next to where
the echo is going to be sitting or what
if you just want to be able to plug it
directly into the plug wouldn't that be
nice wouldn't that be nice so enter the
Amazon echo flex no this is the
brand-new one from Amazon and it is
literally a socket adapter thingy it's a
it's an Amazon echo that you plug in
it's got the buttons on the face just
like you just like you expect to be able
to mute the microphone or activate
without using the voice command in order
to command it and what if they did
something a little bit more I mean the
connectivity on this the physical
connectivity I should say I mean the
wireless and the smart home connectivity
is excellent but the physical
connectivity is a little bit lacking
well this one the Amazon echo flex it
has a USB port and then what if all
hypothetical right now it's not
hypothetical at all
what if they brought out accessories
such as a motion sensor just plug in
like that or say a a LED night light oh
so nice plug in like that and these are
smart home connected so you're able to
control them
let's actually I want to plug this in
and see what happens so I've just got
this now obviously this is just like you
see it here on your screen you're gonna
plug this directly into the wall
presumably I'll just say the nice thing
about this is the the convenience the
portability and the ability to plug it
in anywhere you're not gonna get the
same sound quality I mean we come to
expect really good sound quality out of
these guys this one is really about the
convenience and extending the smart home
so we've already got our smart home kind
of built up we've got some smart devices
we're able to control some lamps and
things like that so this now puts more
microphones some motion sensors and
things like that around the house on the
cheap so I'm gonna plug this in just
like I would into the wall and let's see
how difficult this is to to actually
activate so on my smart phone here I'm
gonna add a device and I'm gonna go
Amazon echo and let's scroll the list
look at all the devices that they've got
already it's a growing line and there's
the echo flex is it plugged in and
orange yup
select your Amazon echo there's only one
it's already picked it up select your
Wi-Fi network all right it's the first
one perfect could it be that easy I
haven't even had to configure anything
so but this will be connected to your
specific device
oh yeah just showed right up in my app
okay sweet so now okay scroll through
it's connected to my Wi-Fi I didn't have
to configure that well I've got all
these all the options that you would
expect from any Amazon echo device now I
just saw it setup pair gadget sure is
that the
devices that go at the bottom well let's
let's try Jeff I'm gonna plug this guy
in Oh first of all here changing the
wake word to cancel and then I want to
plug this in no those are those are
devices like if you have subwoofers or
other peripherals this guy as soon as I
plug it in it's gonna flash oh there we
go
it looks like it's connecting nice okay
so now Jeff I'm gonna add a routine okay
and I'm gonna create new and I'm gonna
add an action and this really reminds me
of like if this then that right so I'm
gonna jump into my smart home because
that's where this device is going to
show up and you see there's my motion
sensor and if we detect motion I want to
do what let's add an action so when the
sensor detects motion I guess it says
and I cancel I can select something
welcome okay cancel let's go into my
smart home and and look at my devices
there's my Christmas tree at the top for
example okay so let's just say turn it
on so as soon as it detects motion it's
going to turn on my Christmas tree
there's this the Christmas tree you have
at home yeah yes exactly so as you're
moving that around your Christmas tree
is going nuts right now yeah I guess so
no if it's already on its a it's it's
gonna be on but now I can put this in
the hallway leading up to the room where
the Christmas tree is and as soon as
somebody walks by if the Christmas tree
is off it will now turn on because it's
plugged into my smart power bar so now
okay so I'm gonna I'm gonna disconnect
this guy and plug in this and let's just
see what happens the first time that we
plug this in that's the night leaves
yeah I found first light and you can
control it by saying turn off first
light I love what I love about this is
how intuitive it is right anyone can
figure this out there's no instruction
manual that I have to read
I'm just so it just told me so I'm gonna
try this
turn on first light okay set first light
to purple set first light to red now on
camera you're not really seeing how red
that really is no but we're in the
studio
are you yeah yeah okay in the it's it's
interesting how LED reacts to our 60
Hertz cameras right change first light
to orange yeah and there is a shift in
the color yeah okay
change first light to purple okay there
you go okay you can see it on my hand
nice and clear no apparently that's the
secret
now Marshman is saying in the chat room
yeah
give her a instruction to change the
color to whatever but don't say okay is
that an instruction you can give with
this device because every time it's like
okay okay okay is there a problem with
that no but like I'm thinking for
instance you know if you've got a kid
who say has a nightlight in their room
yeah they might just say turn the light
on
yeah and you don't want to have this
voice coming back to you in the middle
and I go on okay sure I'll make that
happen is this bright enough for you
like a whisper or something you probably
can just because Jeff wants to know
volume zero
turn off the first light but volume
eight
turn on first light
okay all right volume zero
turn off first light
okay oh she said it alright does it
matter
no no but I just it was an interesting
comment in the in the chat room and I
was like you know what okay that's a
good question especially if you've got
say kids sleeping at night because it is
a nightlight you could set it to be
almost like a little bit of a gentle
wake up to tricking
they set it to automatically come on at
certain times that it turn off my first
light
can you set first light to come on at
7:00 a.m. oh she thinks is the first
motion sensor says so there are you know
there's probably gonna be help for that
kind of stuff right yeah whether like
you can set up routines though so in my
app I can set up the routine to do
certain things as I mentioned it it
really has a reminiscent look to if this
then that so if a certain time is
approached automatically do whatever
right I would within the next bike I
have to wake up in the next hour yeah
change color to a different color so
that when I kind of opened my eyes it's
not it's a nightlight if this this one
is a nightlight right so this is the one
that's gonna go in the hall for what you
want to do I would get a smart power bar
for example and have it plugged into a
lamp and have it have it turn on or get
one that can fade up for example or you
can actually get smart lamps that will
bring the the light up like sunlight
like a like a so you get these various
devices so this particular one again
it's it's really really cheap and it's
something that you can just plug in
anywhere in the house and it extends
that that's smart home so that no matter
where you are it will play music it it
can be a controller for your
voice-activated things throughout the
house and and it's all done it's the
exact same so the questions are like you
can it do this kind of do that it's
exactly the same as this guy as far as
the commands go right so it could
broadcasts to the whole family to all
devices like if dinner right like you
could just talk to it it can and I don't
want to demonstrate that I do
have some echo devices at home but you
can well how could I do that drop in
right no so I have an Alexa device in my
kitchen that's why it asked and I'm
holding it like a walkie-talkie you
don't have to hold it like that you're
gonna have it plugged in somewhere else
in the house and is it sensitive enough
I mean drop in
now because you're already in a
conversation Oh cancel hang up I didn't
realize I was in a conversation oh so
home is listening so that is the new
echo flex I mean this is a really really
I mean I hate to use the term but it's a
smart device if it wasn't for such a
dumb user but you just literally just
plug that in anywhere in your house or
your office and we can have these
anywhere so as long as they have Wi-Fi
connectivity you can have devices at
home you can have devices at work if you
like presumably like in my situation I'm
in a small office so I could have that
at work I could have one here at the
studio and I can use it to communicate
with home I can use it to listen to
music in various places I can use the
one at the studio to set up alerts that
will notify me at home for example so
it's just an extension of your smart
home and that's the echo flex from
Amazon you can get one at cap five dot
TV slash echo now given that it is
something that you would be buying from
Amazon yeah for today's episode and I
mean it is what are we we are on
November 27th we're about to come if
you're watching live yeah if you're
watching live but if you're watching
this recorded this is done at November
27th and so Black Friday starts as of
midnight right just a few short hours
for Amazon their Black Friday deals
starts so I mean if you're gonna if
you're sitting there going yeah you know
what I think I'm gonna pick up a couple
of these for those don't forget our
partner links because that's a way to
kick back to us with a little bit of
cash in the jar so help pay for all the
stuff that we do here and so if you're
gonna be buying your various devices or
anything else from Amazon maybe you're
getting some early Christmas shopping it
don't forget to chat idea partner likes
yeah not really if like wet yeah take
advantage of the sales it's category
five TV slash partners will get you
there
