iPhones have really got to with a ton of
awesome features even like the latest
you know they have a basically a quad
split feature so we do a lot we'll do a
lot of previz will will actually just
take our phones and we'll just you know
stage out something we'll edit together
in like an iMovie on our phones send it
and you know that's how we kind of do a
little bit of visualization of
pre-production but yeah I think the most
handy consumer product is if you have a
phone and it's a smart phone some of our
door panels are actually iPad minis only
actually interact with live it's a
little program that lights up now
sometimes will hands would be effects
but we have been known to sneak an iPad
or an iPad Mini or a phone into a prop
and let it just do its thing with
graphics so I'd love to see that added
to the App Store I'm sure we can we can
work that out for you know this this
being your job I mean it's really really
easy for us going to work every day and
you guys work long hours to look at the
the stuff that comes in that's and we're
thinking again about the tech that is
really exceptional but it's easy to just
kind of oh it's old hat because you deal
with it every single day but is there
anything that through the course of the
first two seasons of the show or even
now as you're gearing up to shoot season
3 is there any gear that has just made
you go like wow like this is
mind-bending that I am a part of this
because of this technology no saying
iPhone I mean yeah I think it's just
it's really just you know all the
different apps and tools that you can
use on an Apple product is like
unbelievable
she went there we do we do have we do I
mean I'm not gonna say but there is a
revolutionary a priori thing that's
going to help us you know invented by
people here hopefully patented I believe
it's patented we're gonna kind that
that's gonna that's
to revolutionize how we shoot some of
the more complex scenes I don't want to
say anything more about it literally in
da bending but there you know we do this
again in the year
yeah well bran will bring on those
people and let them talk about it but it
but because we're moving so fast to have
the ability to sort of for lack of a
better word live live live you know just
be able to do things more organically is
pretty pretty wild but um you know we
use drones for all the time for a lot of
our you know we haven't shot a single
wide wide master shot that hasn't been
used with a drone what other choice B we
have I mean a lot a lot but a lot of our
I think we're different is a lot of our
toys come from Brooks magic so it's you
know we have a huge set over there that
of course is also right now all NDA
because of what's going on but yeah but
a lot of our sets are large and and real
so you know we're we're kind of
old-school Hollywood and some of that in
that way yeah
the foo in the chat is wondering if you
have anything that uses Linux that helps
you with your production chain Linux
[Music]
that's cool
so that's that's a question hey think
about the fact that our community would
love to know that so if you ever hear
about that then just know hey ping
Robbie a category-5 because we'd love to
let our viewers know okay no I mean
we're mostly pretty much yeah I don't
get a check for saying that but we are
Mac family
mm-hm actually this logo running behind
me is running off my have it off Mac
Abbott so it's how we go
