got a box that was sent to us they said
they said if you open this box on the
air we will be very happy and we will
let you keep the contents of the box
it's not it's not a million dollars I
have a remote control and we do we do
have some bubble wrap ooh look at that
Oh bubble wrap and we have a submersible
LED light what takes three Triple A
batteries submersible submersible so
this thing is waterproof Jeff that makes
it perfect for the bath the hot tub the
swimming pool even if you want to put it
in like a baws and make it light up like
this we'll about to have a shower it's
like I'm gonna throw the light in here
you could you know is like in the bath
like read in the bathroom I don't know
but certainly the hot tub or something
because you don't you don't have to
submerge it Jeff
okay and I'm not mentioning the fish
tank because I don't know if it's food
safe this and we don't want to kill your
fish not that this will but I think you
should research at first you don't put
things in the fish tank that are not
approved for fish water okay but you
don't have to put it in water I mean
this could go on your shelf and light
things up you could like maybe table
hang it maybe there's like a you've got
a china cabinet that you don't well like
an antique china cabinet you're not
gonna drill holes in it for LED lighting
because it's an antique right so
something like this a little bit of tape
and like stick it up there and you can
just like turn it on with this remote
control presumably okay sorry and you
said it takes two to three Triple A
batteries three Triple A batteries Jeff
it is not a smart device there's no app
involved there's no remote no aleko
there's no connectivity to your smart
home devices it's literally just a
remote control and the LED there's ten
LEDs in here these are all all ten of
them are RGB so that means you can set
the color yourself
you can have it cycle through and of
course I thought
the question that everyone has burning
in the lungs lost how long are the
battery's gonna last like if I forget to
turn this off what's gonna happen so did
I mention that this box is a little bit
too big for this because it comes with
two Jeff however this one has been
powered on for more than 24 hours and
it's still going and it's still going
and working a treat so there you go
that's just the people see how much
battery life because I don't I'm not
that fancy with something like this Jeff
I mean hey it works it's still running
it's still going there you go honestly
like if you're a cosplayer and you're
looking for something simple for like
Ironman it's like oh no I'm green okay
be a Cylon or Terminator or something
okay so I got green I got blue aqua
purple hit that light switch over there
Jeff and see yeah okay so I can actually
yeah there you go so the remote works
just fine it does come with two remotes
two devices powered on are they separate
signals you know they're the citizen so
you can point this remote at that one
and then that one and whatever you want
to do and then you can do like oh it's
got a strobe feature what yeah that's
what it says the button says strobe what
does it do are you covering the sensor
now it doesn't seem to do wait it
doesn't seem to strobe what's this one
you can that's called flash you can
replace your camera flash this one's
called fade oh and there's one called
smooth so I not seeing a difference
yeah you have to hold the button hmm
maybe
maybe those about flash works well what
about this one
hmm I can change the color really
clearly I have not read the manual yet
alert yeah but I like it
one of the things that I want to do is
I've got an eye in the middle yeah
that's the manual I have a nine don't
even worry about it it's a nine I've got
an eye nine ninety nine hundred K you
can turn the light back on and with that
processor it comes with a really cool
chassis case right the octagonal thing
so I want to put this inside with a
single board computer make it light up
oh you really neat right put it in here
no I'll just probably like do like a
blue glow nice and just have that thing
like just glowing
hey so hey these are pretty neat and
they're cheap they're affordable they're
as I said waterproof and this one again
has been powered on for more than 24
hours
still yeah and it's still going looks
great cap 5 DD / LED turn it off or well
there's a button on the remote oh okay I
just screw is turned off like yeah you
could probably turn it like take out the
batteries if you wanted to although then
you'd have to take it out of the water
if it was in the water
yeah that's sure now on I'm not gonna do
that I would just turn it off from the
remote control but we know that it will
power itself for at least 24 hours yes
thank you
LEDs don't use a lot of juice folks so
hey if I left it on overnight it's not
gonna damn it or yeah or kill the
batteries so cat 5 TV / LED to check
those out the tents yes like now LEDs
the less you eat
[Music]
[Applause]
you
