Coffee hey everybody
Oh bill welcome to our coffee break for
today everybody well it is oh I really
got to start checking the dates before
we get started is today the 15th April
it's the full type 214 April 14th 2020
I'm living in the future
hmm we're all living in the future you
know I want it to be a normal Wednesday
and can you believe that a week from
tomorrow category 5 is back gonna be a
little weird it's back yeah I don't care
I don't care if you're gonna be against
a blank wall when you when you broadcast
yeah you'll be back on the year that's
important that is yeah I'm looking
forward to it it's gonna be it's gonna
be different but it's gonna be great
and it's gonna be nice to get back into
that routine how does a studio look I
have not been taping up well I'm getting
there I've been working on like getting
things wired in so the last time I was
there I did the audio rig so the
wireless microphones are all wired in I
don't have enough power outlets so I'm
still waiting for actually I think it
arrived at UPS today so I got to go pick
it up but they were supposed to have a
20 outlet power distribution unit for
the server was supposed to arrive last
week but it didn't I think it arrived
today so so that's gonna give me enough
power for everything right now I've got
everything wired in but I can't turn it
on pumping any circuit breakers I'm a
little afraid of that because being that
it you know we work after hours and
stuff it's gonna happen when they're
closed right when the mall is closed yep
plus they'll charge they'll charge me if
I trip a breaker like there will be a
fine for that so yeah because you
possibly impact other so I was may have
to consider
howling Ana yeah and plus they have to
have somebody go and trip it back again
right yeah have to pay their staff
surely one breaker would impact just one
unit right I would expect so yeah we'd
probably have isolated circuits for sure
but I don't know how many how many
circuits do I have do am i all on one
phase like these are things I don't know
so once I have the contractor in it
would be nice to get him up into the
drop ceiling and try to determine what
kind of wire and is actually happening
so he is actually going to do some
wiring for us
that was in the projected the plans
because we have a fair bit of lighting
that we have to put in and all that kind
of stuff so he's gonna put light
switches for all of the the studio lamps
and things like that yeah the other
thing that I'm doing bp9 is I'm trying
to reduce the power consumption by using
single board computers more yes you
talked about that I remember yeah I had
a long chat with bow from Ameritrade
last night I'm just to kind of tap into
his knowledge with regards to how I can
set up Power Distribution and things
like that and I think we've come up with
some pretty neat solutions so I've got
the 1u chassis coming sometime whenever
Amazon gets it here then I found some
adhesive standoffs and Bill was
mentioning that because they're three
millimeters they may work with some
boards but not others because some
boards have really really tiny holes but
they're the you know the plastic
adhesive standoffs that you can just
stick into the chassis and then pop your
board onto it so so I was thinking take
as many single board computers as I can
possibly fit within this chassis and
just put these standoffs on the board
and then stick them to the to the inside
of the chassis so then I'm not having to
tap holes through aluminum and not
having to set up a permanent salute and
they can be kind of temporary a double
pipe as well without it I think things
up like like a double time you can put
on beautiful pre apricot in Ryder our
everyday
they filled one one so I would stick
eight on a film on another side decades
and you need to put them on the back
because I was to take the right the ipod
preamplifier have fun in the regular
water there I know my job victory and my
make it hmm can I just wear wear my
translators that I think he was just
describing double tight that use the
carpet tape oh okay
I think you're already doing I'm gonna
use that
yeah standoffs that have the 3m
double-sided on it so yeah I don't want
to tape the board's themselves down
however I might use carpet tape for I
haven't figured out the networking yet
so I'm thinking I might just put a small
consumer eight port switch inside the
chassis something like that but I may
just have a bunch of ethernet cables
coming out the back and then tie them
all up so that it looks like one snake
coming out and then run that directly
into the gigabit switch on the on the
rack so I might take that approach they
don't gobble what do I blow these up
well I can remember but it's that 25
years ago those my man amitabh a bag
yeah yeah yeah any of that double-sided
tape will hold something like that into
the chassis for sure so yeah so I was
thinking about the power distribution
all this to say I think we've got that
figured out guys so I've got a hundred
and thirty-five watt nineteen volt
laptop power supply okay and we're gonna
step that down to five volts which if my
math is correct that should be is that
27 amps just multiply well times am
should be at what and do the same do the
same with the input voltage and they
should match yeah yeah so roughly
roughly 27 27 amps of 5 volts then and
then we're going to go into
an automotive fuse panel so you know
like that with the auto fuses it'll
it'll kind of odd looking things there's
a thing called a rig runner that is a
ham radio thing but we use that for
power distribution exactly the same
thing it uses automatic skew this 10 20
30 amp whatever you need right so I'm
going to put two amp fuses in there cuz
12 either okay they're 12 volt fuses
right so 2 amps will give me 4 point 8
volt up 4.8 amps at 5 volts you won't
get that one gallon do beside you get
don't you pretend like you potential
power when you when you damn thing
because it's lovely didn't they did that
I got from dad down and you come up and
down have the boat up join him up with
you no good today I'll put my my
voltmeter on there and make sure that
we're getting 5.0 for now I should get
them you should get the bolts you
probably just might get the looking for
some there'll be some loss yeah sure
sure
but what I'm saying is that this one
power supply will be able to give us
more than adequate enough of amperage to
power 8 or 10 single board computers you
consider like did I freeze yeah a little
bit
speaking of switches I was I had there
for a few years I didn't do anything
I had a value 48 quarts switch at home
yeah that's one gave me was it had their
true content megabit ports and the rest
was 10 I think probably I think Robbie
would like that nice server and that you
picked up 400 there you go yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah for that well I heard him
say that anything you want or if
anything oh yeah I think
[Laughter]
if you want some real true power in a
small package Robbie you need one of
these
oh is that a Palm Pilot yeah it's a hand
light ring it's a hand spring visor it's
what it is specifically and what it can
do is you can actually you can actually
put slots you can actually quit car
producing yeah just like a melka things
right unreadable expandable power good
you could actually get a phone module
for this and you'd slide the phone
module into there and it would it would
work just like a regular phone oh man
yeah yeah isn't that just a sad just a
sad ending to those devices I know when
HP when HP bought parm I wish and then
basically trashed it but it was like the
evolution of the smart phone all of a
sudden as well like it's like as soon as
the iPhone dropped it's like nobody
wants a Palm Pilot now I have I have all
of the have all of the whole line of
these I've got the trio I've got the
various versions of the trio they even
have here some way is I even have you
know what that is that is a barcode
reader oh wow
oh it's perfect for inventory right oh
yeah totally you can literally load up
an application into this scan you know
with the side buttons yeah or scanning
all about it has an actual laser barcode
reader yes it does and then you you then
you stick it into the I don't know if
you can see that very well but it's
awful I don't like that it slides away
when you when you put it in its dock and
then transfer all the data
to your PC or your laptop right over to
you know how you are keeping track of
your CD and DVD collections no no those
therefore the 8-track collection so do I
wish but well these these things run on
to triple-a batteries so you know just
like the model 100 and they'd run
forever
yeah they'll just run and run and run
now once you start scanning of course
that's gonna start sucking some power
but sure you know just waiting you know
when you're looking for real power what
you do is you get you please you don't
have to worry about distributing
distributing you know hair or anything
like that and I think no spyware in this
lot no I've got a couple of cartridges I
didn't hear to of too many Palm Pilot
viruses no and they'll get that one of
the cartridges such a slight teen and
then you have a you have a what is it
miriam whole dictionary about is some of
the translations have changed since that
was released probably yeah those days
that's candy is it so you've got a photo
of your dining room and you've got a and
your impose yourself that's and that is
a photo of my dining room that I that's
right apparently you can make Zoo drape
any background behind you as you want
but I don't know how to make it do that
I haven't explored that yes it's so cool
that you can do that without a green
screen with a zoom yeah they really need
to integrate that kind of technology
into Wirecast and
now Ron are you doing that on your phone
are you doing that on your PC on my PC I
see okay okay yeah yeah I've done some
zoom on my phone but I don't know I want
them I don't have a good enough webcam
to UM to be able to do this somewhat on
my PC oh I'm not even on the laptop I
don't think and I'm not using my work
I'm not using my work laptop for this
that's not going to happen I suspect
that it requires the computer to I don't
see any settings on the phone that allow
you to do that yeah oh really oh it
won't do this on the Linux client either
sober
well yeah we'll be Bobby hi Peter yeah
you know that Lisa software that's right
yo yo when you're bringing on a place
Ranger I got it set up I think yeah and
you could run the dogs up and talked
about right oh yeah oh cool oh it's it's
pretty unlikely Peter but III do I am
intrigued by the technology it's
unlikely that I would have time to try
that kind of thing but Robby you'd have
to remember that you are actually going
to be on the air on AM radio frequency
so well that's gonna rate Oh Peter you
know we're not talking citizens pain
there I'm not poking TV alright you
gotta follow the rules yes but I didn't
pay that thinking Peter can be your
control operator so you'd be okay
right right
I remember my old man he has a ham
license up until 30 years ago he was an
active and he he and in those days you
didn't prefer that you could use was 500
works and now you can have 1500 but he
had a he had two amplifiers he had one
and he had to sub what's an amplifier
that he could use so he could broadcast
around the world the guy who was he was
also himself and he called and said we
are coming for a check now switch cables
oh man
yeah how so if he can reach around the
world with that kind of power
yeah I only ever experienced FM like so
Dylan rod caster perspective Robbie it
might carry really far no it doesn't
matter how much power you put out that
you still require good conditions you'll
require the propagation the atmospheric
conditions to be right to allow a
propagation to happen you know because
the funny thing is you might start with
a hundred Watts and then if you go to a
thousand Watts that's only going to
increase the reception at the other end
by by 1s point on he's on his signal
meter it's logarithmic so then you'd
have to go to 10,000 watts to actually
get another yes so you know it's nice to
have the linear amplifier that it's
you'd that extra power but I'd rather
wait on on good conditions you have
metal like doing yeah I think and having
a 10,000 watt amplifier
sitting on on the back deck would
probably warrant a tin hat you can't go
ten you can't go ten thousand watch that
that's beyond what you're allowed to do
season the limit is somebody so I think
you saw one for a minute there is what
you actually can do yeah just because
you can doesn't mean you should
yeah okay yeah yeah I did I'm regulatory
things with that thing so I thought it
was your way back i ramble on the water
so whatever they get with a big heavy
though you know I will win the world
Azrael yeah I've also probably worked on
a saved pages as well he's very dressing
bad thing to listen to but like you
think I go little deterrent which he's
got family radio that we never wore in
dogs that I love you just the way you
know but was actually a kid once it's on
the the Gibby have another look at the
code I don't ever want to develop
anymore I don't know if it work that
ring to be worth to go up to 2020
Internet a guys you guys even hear me
welcome to 2020 where the Internet is so
bogged down by people doing stuff like
what we're doing right now probably like
streaming day yeah yeah well that's the
thing to there's so many people that are
work from home that they're remoting
into their work computers all of a
sudden we're using 20 times the
bandwidth during the work day that we
normally would so yeah but but we've
already established that the service
providers are pretty much handled that
you know they can handle that kinda
thought so until this afternoon's coffee
break
everybody signals dropping out all over
the world it's all these ham radio to
keep talking to their radios from across
the world
yeah it's Peter with his ten thousand
watt he pointed it at my office you're
wondering why you're singed glare like
I'm actually lens flare one of their
problems over having a big big amplifier
is that the TV signals at the neighbors
when he when he was broadcasting he he
blocked them out so they all the signals
so every time he lived in apartment
complex so every time it comes and goes
and then he am he said that the trick
was that the antenna cable that was
going into there the TV set
he took that and wiggle it around a
piece of pencil and some of that
mitigated I thought it was actually by a
visit by Goethe probably today they do
band generated ideas on - Oh throw it
lenses or do I thought it a other work
as we got changing magnetic field ever
capture any any place to war and enjoy
just enjoying today and everything's a
bloody wide run in a dope-ass will
interfere with it they don't yet you
want aquarium to get me know be quiet
right you know we are by Basel Road and
they have a after a few tests they're
quite often
so they need to be a bit better what
people people these AdWords is a food
it's a dog it's a way of an effective TV
manufacturers problem and put in a
fairness or piece of angel will make a
duct tape sighs I think you work forever
after a while
oh yeah no available if you don't good
today
one of the interesting things that we're
seeing right now and I'm thinking about
that example of the apartment complex is
that because people are having to work
from home or stay home or they've got
the kids home and everybody's home doing
their thing people are increasing the
strength on their wireless adding things
like access points to their apartments
and houses so now we've got such a
saturation if anyone's on the 2.4
gigahertz band
it's like saturated beyond anything that
I've ever seen so things like why's cams
which are 2.4 gigahertz or just being
flushed right out so you know people are
starting to complain that hey my cameras
have gone offline because they've got
wireless wise cams and things like that
right but they're on the 2.4 gigahertz
band and somebody next door has
introduced two access points to their
network and just plug them in
willy-nilly without setting the channels
and stuff and all of a sudden you've
lost access to your network from from
the back of the house right even if you
wanted to sit the channels there's not
that many available on the 2.4 that's it
yeah but you've got to run a scan to
find out what ones are not overly
saturated right but it's it's constantly
evolving right now normally it like
maybe once a year all of a sudden you
got to check your channels because
somebody's interfering with your your
Wi-Fi but now it's like every week
you're having to figure out who's
causing interference and and fix it so
yeah I have not had that problem here
although 5dg and a 2.4 deep Loden
or router and go and I've spoke move to
5d for any devices that are capable of
doing that yeah to try and lessen the
load on the 2.4 gig but I've done this
question has you know are tied I've
locked down the network B time it it
does not transmit it some sob at all
range but you don't even know it's there
if you're not look if you don't know
that yes and it only allows connections
from the MAC addresses of devices that I
know so if anybody tries to drive by and
tries to connect it won't allow it
because it will just lock out that
Mehcad it says I don't recognize this
MAC address and it won't even let it
connect I feel good that people drive
because really I'm there like the only
way where like everybody can get a good
buzz enjoy dad's on my house tried to
grab my Wi-Fi so I did the same thing I
used a MAC address very smart yeah you
have to you have to because otherwise
otherwise anybody could just log in to
your stuff yeah and you don't
necessarily be doing a series I don't
know if you guys watch on the on the
category 5 TV website but there's a
agenda like coming shows and everything
but one of the parts of the series is
setting up a lockdown Wi-Fi access
points so that it gives access to the
the internet but not the network
resources so you won't be able to access
like file shares and printers and things
like that but you'll still be able to
surf the web development allows
yeah and a network bridge that's
isolated from the main network as well
so well more modern more recent browsers
have a thing called guest Network which
have not explored yet but it would be
perfect for Internet of Things
my make any Internet of Things device
can it tree the gifts Network what that
means is it is a separate Wi-Fi network
from your own internal network when you
have access on the guest network that
device can only get to the Internet
cannot get to any of your or other
devices on the guest network well I'm
not sure about that as kind of a final
thought because we are at a time but
just in my contrast with those consumer
devices bp9 typically it's yes it's
isolated so the two networks can't
communicate with one another however
somebody could gain access to that guest
Wi-Fi and milk all your bandwidth for
all it's worth so I want to take it one
step further and actually limit the
amount of bandwidth that the guest
access can get can use so that they're
not using my service in such a way that
it's going to bog down my network I
don't want my internet to go slow
because the kids why kids friends have
their iPads yeah so I want to control
that and limit the amount of bandwidth
that they're allowed to use on the guest
network in addition to the isolation
this is the oldest access point that is
still being manufactured
you can throw any firmware on there you
want to throw a tomato or dd-wrt right
however the wrt units if I recall
correctly or 10 over 100 right am i
right in that so so that would be a
bottleneck on a network that's gigabit
so you wouldn't get your full speed of
your network yeah but for those who want
to limit bump it's an easy and have high
speed internet an easy way to limit
bandwidth is to use one of these because
they do it's not possible to get
Babbitt's that's okay yeah okay yeah I
see what you're saying I got you limited
by the limitations of the device so not
gonna get more than 100 even though your
internet might be deed you you can't
late more than 100 true 100 Meg free
that pie right sure yeah okay sorry so
that's something I'm gonna be doing
that'll be fun oh boy I gotta go guys
it's been fun it's been nice seeing ya
we have a wonderful afternoon
does it ever a WoW yeah so have a great
afternoon guys we'll see you tomorrow
for coffee break I think drop see you
later
