welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 623 this week we are
speaking with anusha ask ooh Yin she is
the CEO of ship and Shore environmental
Inc and she's gonna be talking to us
about how she was able to become the CEO
of a large company that is affecting the
the output the pollution output of
multinational companies and I'm really
excited to hear about the technology how
they're creating custom solutions in
house for so many different companies to
be able to like looking at the future
reduce the emissions of these companies
so that we have cleaner air down the
road so we've got that interview coming
up in just a couple months time after
that I'm gonna be showing you a really
cool feature that is now available on
the linux terminal thank you to a to
generous programmer who has given us a
weather forecast for the linux terminal
that is unlike anything you've ever seen
in the linux terminal you want to see
that as well stick around this
category-five technology TV our live
recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash iai be welcome to the show
everybody I'm Robby Ferguson I am Sasha
Rickman and Before we jump into it
tonight I want to remind you make sure
you get onto our YouTube channel and
click on that subscribe button and as
well there is a bail which is going to
make sure that you get the notification
every time we post a new and exciting
video or when we go live all right so
we're getting right into an interview
tonight and fact is while I try to do my
part by recycling and making sure that
my e-waste is properly disposed of there
are industrial companies that pour so
much pollution into the environment that
it really starts to feel like well is my
individual effort actually making a
difference
well someone really needs we've had this
discussion before Sasha like who can
step up and make a difference who can
actually help those companies to be able
to reduce their footprint and in fact
ship and Shore environmental
incorporated is here with us tonight and
they're dealing specifically with those
environmental issues on a grander scale
using sophisticated technology to help
industrial customers so not us
individuals but the big businesses to be
able to control and reduce and even
offset their air pollution Anusha a SKU
ioan is the CEO of ship and Shore Anusha
thank you so much for joining us this
week it's a great pleasure to be here
with you thank you for the opportunity a
new show before we speak about the
technology and how your company is
combating pollution at the industrial
level I'd really like our viewers to
have the opportunity to get to know you
on a personal level especially at this
time I mean stem stem education is
something that's very prominent today
and it's not just boys who are growing
up with a passion for engineering and
being encouraged to pursue it as well
but you got started at a very different
time and I imagine that that led to some
challenges so I'd asked what inspired
you to get into the engineering field
and pushed you to see it through despite
cultural opposition to give you a myself
I came to this country at a very young
age and always with the hope and the
dream of living in America and doing
what I love doing and making a new life
for myself and as daring as it was
before the revolution took place in Iran
I decided to be and convince my parents
to send me away I always was earthen
Sciences but my interest in chemistry as
well as getting into a field where there
were not very many women involved was
was of interest it was a different time
and when I was going to school everyone
was like what would you want to do with
this what are you gonna take this mm-hmm
a lot of questions that I didn't even
know how to answer but I trusted my
instincts of following my passion for
chemistry and eventually led me to
become a chemical engineer and I always
had my heart set on wanting to do
something to make a difference and is
this something that you've always wanted
to do if I was to say I always wanted to
be a chemical engineer it's probably not
correct my interesting chemistry was
there due to an amazing teacher I had at
a very young age just like everyone in
life you have one hero that you it just
changes your life and your
where you want to go but I always had a
sense of entrepreneurial about what I
wanted to do and I believed in doing
things that would be different that what
a woman and a girl is supposed to do
heading into fields of studies that is
very typical wasn't what I had in mind
did I want to do what I do right now
I wouldn't remove anything else right
now but I was think on the scientific
path and staying on wanting to make a
difference I think was always something
I had him also teachers listen up you
can make a world a difference in a young
life
Anusha coming from a background such as
yours being born in Iran would women
have ever even thought about pursuing
this field I believe before the
Revolution since the country was very
westernized and quite advanced in many
fields of studies of women were very
involved with with everyday life and
booming what the country was about I
would have been very possible but I was
lucky enough to leave before the
Revolution and not for what the dreams I
had if I would have stayed there it
definitely would not have been possible
if I would have stayed there at most I
could have perhaps to pursue my
education but just work for a company or
or
make the best of my degree but to what
I've made it to be now I think it would
have been him we lost you there sorry
you just just cut out there sorry if you
just back up just about a 10 seconds
sorry about that folks
I was just mentioning that even in this
country where I am and what I do yes is
not a very typical of what a woman would
do with the education that I have and
I've had I've had quite a bit of
challenge to make sure that we stay on
path and continue with the company as I
do
we're seeing a lot of change these days
but like back when you were getting
started what was really the biggest
challenge that you faced Tanisha getting
started just working as a woman in the
chemical engineering field at one point
of time when I was hired on a major if
you see company they simply wanted to
meet their quota of having enough women
on board we I won mention names and not
knowing and definitely management
positions were not as readily available
to the women there were chemical
engineers and advancing within a company
was was not as as easily as it is
achieved nowadays and I'm so happy to
see so many women powerhouses and CEOs
and CFOs in many fields so getting
started was was quite challenging and I
definitely had enough challenges as a
CEO of my company of our company here to
walk into offices and introduce myself
as one and they would if I did not
introduce myself
we always think I would be engineering
secretary that came along with a bunch
of oh no oh no so you have a good sense
of humor about that it seems so you kind
of put them in their place I do you have
a minute I could tell you a company that
you walked into on our business cards I
walked in with number of our engineers
and a big presentation
so they invited us to go in I was the
only woman and the secretary the front
office showed me where the coffee was
and if I wanted to get coffee for all
the guys were there and get ourselves
situated ownership comfortable and we
said nothing number of guys were with us
and what I did was I went along and once
the clients walked in they would totally
ignore looking me in the face and we're
talking to the guys ask me everybody to
make their introduction yeah and they
did I went last so once I introduced
myself hold on that I was CEO of the
company let's really jaws job and I it's
it's it's a moment that I always keep
vivid in my mind but I wish I had my
iPhone back a new shell bet that they
have not forgotten that moment either
here you are I mean you're the CEO of
the company how did you get from where
you were to here I think like everyone
else hard work passion for what you want
to do seizing opportunities making sure
you stay true to your own inner voice
and doing what you really feel like it's
the right thing to do and and I should
always definitely thank my stars lining
up to put my words and thanking all the
various people and elements in life that
that gave me the opportunity it's it was
challenging like I said at the beginning
once we even started the company with me
at the helm of the company but but over
time I think just saying just stay true
to to what I wanted to do was was
was was quite important mm-hmm and yet
you kind of set it in order it's you got
to be hard-working you got to dedicate
yourself and then the opportunities
present themselves a new show before we
get into learning about the actual
technology of course we're a technology
show so we're gonna get there folks
we want to learn about that Tech and how
you're using it to help big businesses
combat pollution that's what this is
about but do you have any advice I mean
it's not just for young people but in
particular young women because we are in
a time when like young girls are now
being able to come into engineering and
be encouraged to do so and it's an
exciting time but for those kids who are
looking at in engineering and other
fields like this what what advice can
you give them to truly not let anyone or
anything get in their way of wanting to
study a particular subject doing the
right thing going after what their
passion is most often even when I was
growing up I was being told well you
know girls can't do that yeah girls
can't do this it even even nowadays we
find ourselves limiting girls from
certain things comfortable so my advice
has always been and I do go around from
universities and high schools whatever
opportunity arises to encourage girls to
go to scientific fields to go to
engineering school and and look at it as
a career because God knows we have
enough girls that are in the fashion
world we have enough girls that are into
what girls are supposed to be and we
definitely lack the brainy ones to come
into the engineering field and really be
the makers of what the future will be
and we'll hold
I and I'm really happy to see that you
don't necessarily have to be a nerd in
order to be an engineer so you could you
could you could balance you know
smartness but the designer of wanting to
do to do what you're passionate about
and make a success story out of it we're
speaking with anusha of school and she's
actually the CEO of ship and Shore
environmental incorporated and when we
return we're gonna be finding out about
how their technology works how its
making an international impact on
pollution that is generated by big
industry stick around at ship and Shore
environmental we provide customized
engineering solutions for air pollution
abatement we engineer design and
fabricate environmental products and
systems including regenerative thermal
oxidizers for clients that are required
to collect and Destroy missions
generated by their manufacturing
operations when you work with ship and
Shore we become your strategic partner
from initial permit application to
commissioning meeting the most stringent
air pollution regulations chip ensure
matches best abatement technologies to a
variety of industrial applications we
have successfully implemented equipment
for manufacturing of flexible packaging
plastics resins fiberglass fasteners and
coated metals food products
pharmaceuticals electronics as well as
safety systems for barge degassing and
terminal loading applications shipping
Shaw is an international company serving
clients throughout the American
Europe and Asia our team of experts
provides overall engineering and
management of environmental projects to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions always
aiming to keep utility operating costs
down through enhanced energy efficiency
and waste heat recovery ship ensure is
also instrumental in recovering
incentive rebates sponsored through
utility providers for new and improved
equipment operation our skilled teams
are available 24 hours a day seven days
a week
contact us now for a free estimate by
calling five six two nine seven zero two
three three or learn more about us at
ship in short comm I'm speaking with
anusha a Scullion CEO of ship and Shore
environmental Inc can you perhaps
explain to us lay people how your
technology works
Anusha tall order right well in general
I always say every every successful
person I like to think of myself as one
should have a 30 second they used to
call it elevator pitch as to what is it
that we do we are an engineering
consulting manufacturing company that
designs and fabric aids and installed
anti pollution control systems for all
different types of industrial facilities
all types of manufacturing facilities
anytime anyone within any factory opens
up but there is a can of paint or a big
bucket of chemicals or anything that
they process to make things we can
potentially be there and we have for you
removing any of the pollutants that
comes off of them and that is done by
designing the systems to internally
capture and
collect all of the pollutants that are
usually lighter than their
heavier-than-air per life of in the
environment where workers are working
and we take it all outside to our system
way in which and we have clean air
coming out of the chimney or stack of
our units Wow
and you've used the the word design a
few times in your response so are we
talking are these custom designed like
units that you're using
um yes they are every single project we
have is custom designed based on the
need for for the facility for any
manufacturing allocation and even if
manufacturing facilities do the same
things no two systems would be exactly
identical because the nature of the
business may be different the size of
the requirements may be different and
also their geographic location as to
where they are in the country or even
outside of the country dictates what
type of technology we will be utilizing
to remove okay I'm so neutral in your
years of working with Pollution Control
what changes in particular I'm thinking
about like improvements in technology
what have you seen that really has been
exciting for you to be personally a part
of I honestly say that in the olden days
removal pollution was a problem at hand
for major say refineries chemical plant
little chemical plants right they were
not so concerned about removing him
efficiently or destroying them
efficiently did the goal was less young
well yeah just Marian yes over the years
especially with a lot of technology that
we have developed in-house we have been
able to come up with ways to make this
not only the most efficient
where you are not spending a lot of
utility including gas and electricity to
get rid of this but also design them
such that you can bring back a lot of
meats that becomes available from these
type of units so the element of heat
recovery cost conscious and utility
consciousness has been one of the main
things that we focused on very cool so
what interest what industries are
actually benefiting from your pollution
control systems in California in
particular the make up air pollution
control because of the they type
controls due to EPA and the local
agencies any one particular
manufacturing facility or operation that
puts out over some areas for tons of
emissions or ten tons of initial is
subject to having to do a control
equipment and that could really be any
factory that is processing a a chemical
of some sort to build their equipment
yeah if they operate five days a week
and only one ship for these gonna be
over that so this is legislation that is
in place to say that they have to have
some kind of pollution control do or
else the plants are not given permits to
operate or they're not even given a city
permit so it has to become part of that
some other parts of the country are a
little bit more relaxed but California I
always use the example if you flew into
LAX say 20 25 years ago you could not
see five feet ahead of you or in front
of you because it was just this yellow
haze all over the place and it was
extremely polluted right now Los Angeles
has really improved tremendously and
it's among one of the cleaner
city's compared to what it used to be so
what we have done which I am so proud to
always share is we truly have cleaned up
the air in the in the vicinity in Los
Angeles LA basin San Diego and most of
California due to more stringent rules
which are now becoming the rule in the
country everywhere else Wow and that
really brings me to like thinking about
our like our rising concerns about the
impact on the environment long term and
so we are seeing pollution control
regulations becoming more strict not
just in California but on a global scale
have these new rules had a big impact on
your clients industries concern about is
to make sure we do the right thing for
all existing manufacturing facilities
and I always that I'm just putting a
Pollution Control does not have to break
your back if you design for it properly
it can really benefit not only the
environment and it can be very cost
prohibitive in terms of trying to bring
some heat back trying to make them all
efficient so and I'm a big proponent of
keeping industry and manufacturing alive
in us and that is what the country was
built on years ago and I hate for
manufacturing sector to leave us and go
elsewhere so the impact that I see there
are clients that's tier of what this may
cost us and just avoid it totally it
does not have to be as expensive as they
think and other parts of the world are
beginning to adopt these rules and
regulations as well sure and we got to
look at the big picture - I love I never
even had the thought that like hey move
these things to Canada and keep our
factories warm you know not so much of a
problem in California but certainly up
here we could use it
how does ship ensure help meet the
challenges that these new rules have
presented because it seems to be
ever-changing we're always hearing about
how the regulations are just always
being revised how do you help your
customers deal with that I do have the
opportunity to serve at South Coast Air
Quality Management District locally
which is a large institution for
developing a lot of the rules that the
world follows and so we tried to stay
ahead of what is coming down the
pipeline what is achievable what is
feasible and try not to really kill the
industry by enforcing the most stringent
rules on them I'm trying to stay ahead
of the game trying to design for future
rather than what you need to do right
this minute yeah the other things that
I've always advise a lot of my clients
is try to plan ahead you have a
manufacturer you'd actually want to go
so try to do this all at once and not
necessarily have to do it every time you
add a piece of equipment or expand your
operation and lastly a one of the things
I always mentioned to people is please
take a look at what we do to air and air
pollution we have no geographic
boundaries yeah anything we do anywhere
even if we were to send all of this to
Canada you know eventually come back to
us anything they do in China and
eventually reach us in other parts of
the world so we just cannot say is not
my problem let somebody else worry about
yeah absolutely
Anusha how disruptive are the
regulations and these like just the
changes that are constantly required and
and with that you know thinking about
all the changes that companies have to
make in order to comply with the
regulations is there really going to be
a big impact on the air quality long
term I think
well I look at the structures in two
ways there will not be a disruption in
the operations and in the manufacturing
sector if they plan for what the
Pollution Control for the facility
should be in the long run from the
get-go of the design phase if they this
thing and they need to adopt and adapt
to the new rules there are ways to
provide design a system that would be
completely suitable for them there are a
lot of facilities that are mom-and-pop
shop they're smaller
however they have to live with the new
rules and regulations so we do design
systems that are much more compact break
their back right it's not scalable well
it is scalable it's not one size fits
all it can easily be done for any any
any facility and as long as they have to
want to do the right thing there is a
way to to manage this for them and I am
a big advocate speaking already half of
the industry but a lot of agencies
around to make sure they don't come down
with the toughest rules for areas where
they're just not able to do it or the
technology is not there yet because they
can sometimes get a little little crazy
I should say by wanting to enforce the
worst and the technologists just is not
there to support it yet I see aside from
our interview today I have noticed that
you've been getting a lot of media
coverage ship and Shore environmental
with your growth into an international
presence and really making a big dent on
the environmental impact of
multinational businesses as well can you
just kind of elaborate on that tell us a
little bit about that well we recently a
few years ago by three years or so ago
we started working closely with China
EPA as they were developing their rule
and they were trying to model some of
the rules they had after what we've done
in California for your information SCA
qmb is referred to as the mecca of air
pollution worldwide so we started
working with them sharing some of the
experiences and as a result with the
number of projects in China now it is
always a start we won't be able to clean
that country in a matter of a week or a
month or a year sure but and you start
is a good way to get going we have
recently noticed that there is a lot of
demand in other forests countries we
just started having presence in Thailand
so as the rules and regulations are
tightening up around the world and g20
is encouraging other countries to step
up and do the right thing I think
there's only a lot of potential growth
for our company as well as for the world
to look at things globally rather than
locally sure and that is what we really
need to focus on how do we impact the
world with with respect to at least the
pollution and the environmental issues
and I think global warming and climate
change are hopefully a topic for another
discussion
Anusha you mentioned that there are some
mom-and-pop shops and smaller businesses
that are that are benefitting from your
technology but we're also talking about
and taking a look at big industries
these international multinational
companies but some of these companies
have been in business for a very long
time the challenge there I'd imagine is
that changing the way that they
manufacture in order to meet regulations
could be extremely costly with that in
mind how is ship and Shore environmental
helping them establish and maintain
compliance with these regulations that
are again just always changing mention
we do
work with any size of manufacturing
facilities some of the larger ones that
have been there have been doing it
without keeping the environment in mind
either they've been approached by the
local air quality as to what is the game
plan moving forward and some of the
bigger companies multinational companies
I have to say I'm happy to see that they
have adopted a new sustainability
program and part of that sustainability
program has been how do you control your
pollution and how do you control your
waste so the conscious the companies
that are very conscious about it
and want to keep the right image right
message have adopted plans as to how
they roll out the sustainability program
and our activity does fall within the
sustainability program is life and if
for nothing else one of the things we
always say here when these mule cease
volatile organic compounds refer to as
pollutants are going out of the chimney
or facility they won't have heating
values so if they're captured and
brought back to the plan
they can do their heating with what is
most they could hot water needs tomato
there always to capture that you just
think about it yeah and those are some
of the advances we've made that I really
take pride in all the years amazing
awesome and just quickly when you speak
of the manufacturing early part me the
design process are you speaking like I'm
thinking about businesses that have
maybe been in business since the 1960s
and like it is the design process
your product like can you come into a
factory like that and improve their
facilities so that it's not like so that
you're offsetting the the pollution
that's coming out of there yes we are
able to do that we have I have walked
into some facilities believe it or not
that happy
for decades Wow one thing that happens
immediately is the air and the
environment within the manufacturing
facility becomes much much better a lot
thinner so you've got happier operators
you have happier people inside the plant
because till then nothing was being done
and all of those people were are
breathing the fumes in yeah breathing
thinking about the healthcare coverage
yeah so you have happier people inside
the plan and more productive people as a
result and secondly we have been able we
have never ever failed to design around
what is existing in a plant if they
choose to move forward and be conscious
about handling their pollution and
Pollution Control wonderfully can be
done and thank God for what engineering
practices were always able to come up
with a great system
beautiful Anusha where can our viewers
learn more about your technology's
impact on the environment when naturally
is always great if they go to our
website which is one place we always
like to get people to go visit because
we have chased studies we have pictures
of what has been done we talk about the
fun industries naturally
www.andyjenkins.com projects they'll go
to our sites and want to learn more we
have students that become intern over
summer time so we try to keep the
educational side of everything alive and
kicking at all times as well as hoping
to be able to gain more clients as a
result of whether is a brand new
facility they're building whether they
want to just become more aggressive in
their and environmental practices or
just just just just wanting to do the
right
right fantastic ship in short common
usha thank you so much for taking the
time out of your busy schedule to share
with how your company is helping to
reduce the world's pollution keep up the
great work thank you so very much and
thanks for the opportunity hearing from
your audience if you have any questions
for important athletes entertain girls
and again thank you thanks anusha all
right we've got to head over to the
newsroom Sasha if you're ready I sure AM
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom a
ransomware strike took down 23
government agencies in Texas
Walmart is suing Tesla's energy division
after solar panels on seven of its doors
caught fire
researchers have found 85 Google Play
apps with more than 8 million combined
downloads that forced users to view full
screen ads Mario Kart Tour was supposed
to be available in March 2019 until
Nintendo delayed its release to give it
a bit more polish now the gaming giant
is finally ready to roll out and has
announced an official launch date these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere this is the category 5 dot TV
newsroom covering the week's top
Linux bias I'm Sasha Rickman and here
are the top stories for following this
week a ransomware strike took down 23
government agencies in Texas early on
August 16th a total of 23 local
government organizations in Texas were
hit by a coordinated ransomware attack
the type of ransomware has not been
revealed and Texas officials asserted
that no state networks were compromised
in the attack a spokesman for the
department Texas department of
information resources or T dir said
authorities are not ready to reveal the
names of the entities affected nor other
details of the attack state and federal
agencies are in the midst of a response
and t dir did not have information on
when whether any of the affected
governmental organizations had chosen to
pay the ransom but the T dir did reveal
that the ransomware came from a single
source saying quote at this time the
evidence gathered indicates the attacks
came from one single threat actor
investigations into the origin of this
attack are ongoing
however response and recovery are at the
prior are the priority at this time and
quote response teams from the t dir the
Texas Division of Emergency Management
Texas military Department Department of
Public Safety and the Texas A&amp;M
University System security operations
center and critical incident response
team have all been involved in the
effort to bring systems back online as
federal officials from the Department of
Homeland Security the FBI FEMA and other
agencies it's been a bad year for
American cities facing ransomware attack
Baltimore is still in the process of
recovering just sending out its first
water bill since May and facing 18
million dollars in direct costs and lost
revenue elsewhere to Florida cities paid
out a total amounting to over 1 million
dollars worth of cryptocurrency to
regain their data
the Texas attacks are the largest
coordinated ransomware attack seen
against multiple local governments but
they're not necessarily the first
coordinate
attacks three school districts in
northern Louisiana were hit by
ransomware in a single incident in July
not clear if the district's shared any
network infrastructure my goodness
wasn't there like this I don't know if
it's just the movies that I watch but
isn't it like we do not bow to terrorism
like is that not until the terrorists
have all of your stuff but but it's like
they just paid a million dollars to
random hackers and the thing is you can
call it targeted maybe it is but
realistically ransomware ten times out
of nine is not targeted it's just they
find exploits and then they exploit it
so how is it targeted in a government
institution usually how it works is that
the actual human well know it starts
with a script the scripts look for
exploits on the web so these are
unpatched Windows systems routers that
have default passwords things like that
once it finds one it then tries to
compromise and it will notify the person
who's attacking the the individual hey I
found one here's the credentials you can
log in they'll log in and then they'll
figure out hey they have two hundred
computers or they have ten thousand
computers oh look at this I'm in I'm
into the school board so what do they do
they then sell that information that
login information well sometimes they'll
install a couple things first to make
sure that they have guaranteed their
access just so that you don't you know
don't make it too easy for them to patch
it and then they sell it on the dark web
like let's sell that information so is
it targeted well kind of but it started
with you have unpatched systems and then
it became targeted when they realized
what they had found what they had been
able to compromise and then sell it to
the next highest bidder and then that
bitter is the one who says okay I'm
gonna try to make a million dollars I'm
gonna encrypt all these files over the
weekend right yeah
unfortunately it seems to be like the
new norm we kind of started to fall into
complacency there for about six months
leading up to about three weeks ago I
mean unless you're in the States you
know working for the government that
it's really it had tapered off for a
while it was really bad 2017 2018 2019
has not seen as much it's like it seems
like it has tapered off maybe people
have gotten wise and patched their
systems and so maybe that but now more
exploits come out we've talked about hey
patch your systems because Microsoft has
already revealed that there are newly
found exploits that are in the wild that
can be compromised so hey if they didn't
patch their systems call it targeted if
you want it's not targeted they're just
not patched right so but that said okay
so we fell into complacency thinking hey
the things have tapered off no now it's
back on the rise again we're seeing
multiple ransomware attacks even in
small communities every single week and
and that's a really dangerous thing and
the truth of the matter is when you're
desperate you're gonna end up paying the
ransom like you're desperate I hope not
I hope not too but at the same time if I
if all of my business was based on the
fact that I needed no access what other
choice nation yeah
and there's another side to this where
you're naming off all these agencies
that are working with them to recover
and I just went through ransomware
attack and it's like where are these
agencies to help me I didn't personally
one of my customers did right and it was
up to me to to remedy it for them well
they didn't pay the ransom they paid my
hourly wage and that was less than the
rant it was less than the ransom but but
still a hefty fine right but but the
fact is is that you know that was my my
burden my stress to deal with it
throughout the process because backups
were not what they should have been and
and so on so but they've got these
massive industries that will come in and
and help them recover but we can't get
backwards and and you can't pay these
folks
ah I know what's a really hard thing
look look for volume shadow copies if
you ever get hit another thing that's
really interesting not to take too much
time I know you want to move on but if I
can give you one tip this is a really
interesting fact and as soon as I say it
I think I think that the malicious
parties that are watching are gonna be
oh we need to fix that volume shadow
copies are like copies of your files
that you can revert to the previous
version on Windows okay very very handy
if you have them and you need to revert
go back in time so if you have volume
shadow copies and you get hacked or hit
by ransomware sometimes well if you have
a volume Shadow Copy you can go back to
the previous version of the file and you
can do it on a whole drive so you can
just undo the damage just like that but
these days the malicious parties are
getting smart and they're removing the
volume shadow copies from the computer
this particular instance the hacker
whoever coded it
I'll only remove volume shadow copies
from C from the C Drive so the
interesting fact about that is if your
system drive or your data drive is not C
C colon in Wales like if it was D or Z
or P or whatever still have it it it may
have you may have still had the volume
shadow copies the data would have still
been encrypted but they didn't think to
delete the volume shadow copies from any
Drive other than C right
now that's only the case of the
particular malware that I was dealing
with that was a really stupid bonehead
mistake on the on the part of the hacker
but it gave me an opportunity to restore
some of the networking because there
were volume shadow copies of the mounted
volumes right right so it was a whole
different scenario so so watch out for
that volume Shadow Copy could be your
friend that's for sure
after solar panels on seven of its
stores caught fire Walmart's legal team
allege that the firm was negligent and
how it installed the panels on the roofs
of the stores
court documents describe a string of
fires that occurred between 2012 and
2018 at Walmart locations in Ohio
Maryland and California the first fire
occurred at a Walmart store in Long
Beach California in 2012 another in
Beavercreek Ohio in March 2018 saw
customers evacuated and the store closed
for eight days this court documents say
quote to state the obvious a properly
designed installed inspected and
maintained solar systems do not
spontaneously combust end quote
Walmart is asking Tesla to remove solar
panels from all of its stores and to pay
damages
Tesla's share price fell on news of the
Walmart lawsuit which was filed in the
New York State Supreme Court last
Tuesday that is such a crying shame it
puts a real negative spin on solar
panels doesn't have to be now I'm
thinking of putting solar panels on the
roof of the house and it's like I don't
want my house to catch fire I uh I don't
think solar panels are that dangerous I
mean I realize that maybe since I had
seven stores with solar panels catch
fire and I realized that that's a
tragedy and being closed for eight days
is bad and I don't want to diminish the
fact that I'm sure that there was damage
I think that the pros outweigh the cons
as far as solar panels go these things
can like this I think how long I want to
know how long were they installed for
right that's I guess the question that
the burning questions it because in the
statement from Walmart they said
properly maintained well were you
properly maintaining it I I know
customers who say they've been properly
maintaining their server and they're
using an eol version of server like
could could lightning have hit it could
have been the case I don't know you
think they have a lightning tower or
some tree nearby that's a bit taller
than the building I would like to know
how many stores Tesla has solar panels
on because yours doesn't seem like a
huge number if you know is it just a
trial like where there were eight stores
and seven of them caught on fire or was
it millions of stores yeah see my
neighbor two doors down has solar panels
all over their entire
Rufe there at time yeah it doesn't like
it's gonna burn I'm not scared
they're not scared I feel like I feel
like this story is weird too maybe yes
this is what I'm feeling like it is this
our advantage at category-five TV that
we can have this conversation in the
news and say is media hyping this is
media making it sound like this is a
bigger deal than it is and it's
affecting stocks of Tesla who are like
making a world of difference
yeah Tesla is trying really really hard
really hard well I'm not gonna even go
there but I just I feel like stop
picking on Tesla and and this is the
fact they're not giving all the facts
they're not giving you all the details
they're not saying okay there were there
were actually two thousand stores there
were actually you know these ones they
they decided to have a local company
install them instead of test I don't
know these things were the official
installers were they you know it could
be anything maybe it was a flat roof and
it flooded a bit and it shorted
something out was it sabotage right all
these things so don't let's not lose
hope in the technology and the the fact
that this can make a whole world of good
for for like emissions hey we can tap
into the Sun I have make sense juice
about green power like your wind Sun
anything you can do to make it so that
you're not just digging up fossil fuels
and burning them yeah we spoke with
anusha asking and about her technology
at her company ship and Shore
environmental and in that discussion she
mentioned how they can convert emissions
into the heat for the building and water
heating and things like that how cool is
that and now okay so solar panels yeah
we can power things we can generate heat
we can we can heat the pool we can heat
the water of the
you use them to wash your hands and have
a shower right like these are all things
that can be done through just the Sun
don't lose hope don't ya don't let media
hyper don't listen to this story listen
to the conversation after where we put
it straight exactly yes and comment
below and tell us how right we are how
right we are I would really appreciate
that just once in a while YouTube just
tell us how 85 Google Play apps with
more than 8 million combined downloads
that force users to view full screen ads
the apps which pose as photography and
gaming programs contained a family of
adware that was highly disruptive to
end-users once installed the apps
displayed ads in full screen a setting
that forced users to view the entire
duration of an ad before being able to
close the window or to get back into the
app the apps showed an ad every 5
minutes oh the people operating the
platform had the ability to remotely
change the frequency the adware used
several tricks to evade detection and
removal a half an hour after being
installed for instance an app would hide
its icon and create a shortcut on the
device home screen hiding the icon
prevented the apps from being
uninstalled by dragging and dropping the
icon to the uninstall section of the
device screen Android 8 and later
versions require user confirmation
before an app can create a shortcut but
even if users of these versions didn't
agree the icon would nonetheless remain
hidden Trend Micro who made the
discovery
privately reported the apps to Google
and Google then removed the apps from
play so ok good they were removed yeah
and I did hear as well that some of
these apps were objectionable so the
problem with that is like ok my kids use
the phone all the time right they
install apps well you know we let them
install games and stuff and only the
free ones right and you have a certain
amount of trust and we do have a certain
amount of trust in Google Play and the
App Store and and trust that hey these
things have been tested for any kind of
malware and they do get through the
cracks sometimes but
hackers are clever advertisers are
clever they're getting paid for it's not
free that is tricky business hiding the
icon you know how many times I've had
like an immediate so I hear Morse I
download an app and I'm Michael what
have I done
uninstall how horrible usually how do I
remove the LG stuff garbage that it
comes with how horrible would it be if
then you couldn't remove it at all right
yeah Oh or you don't even see it so you
don't even know it's running in the
background it just it's not even there
that's dirty guys don't be doing that
yeah Mario Kart tour was supposed to be
available in March 2019 until Nintendo
delayed its release to give it a bit
more polish and now the gaming giant is
finally ready to roll out and has
announced an official launch date the
Mario Kart Tour website even shows that
pre registrations are now open for both
Android and iOS users so they can be
notified as soon as the game is ready to
download but the official word is Mario
Kart tour will be available on your
smartphone September 25th the game is
free to start which means players will
have to decide whether to spend money on
microtransactions to unlock features and
perhaps even characters Nintendo has
promised to release more details about
the game as its release date approaches
and some people give a hard time to
nintendo over like this freemium model
but anyone who owns a Nintendo switch
like you already know that like that's
the way the Nintendo has been for some
time it's like hey yeah we'll let you
play for free but if you want to tap
into my daughter was concerned today
because she had accidentally spawned
about a billion sheep in her Minecraft
world and it was crashing and she
couldn't get back in and everything
she's like I don't have a Nintendo
account so I can't back it up oh you got
to pay 50 bucks for that Nintendo
account right right so it's like the the
infrastructure is already there that's
how they do things and it makes sense oh
you have to make money
Hey but I guess phone users are not
really used to that model like the
PlayStation online yeah you're used to
it yeah Nintendo is it called Nintendo
online I think you're used to it so if I
were to give a child my phone how easy
is it to actually do these
microtransactions
that's the thing yeah okay I ever tell
you how that happened when I first got a
Android TV set-top box no I let you log
into your Google account okay and your
Google account is associated with your
credit card
uh-huh right yeah yeah and I got
notifications I'm sitting at my desk and
I kept getting in my phone was buzzing
in my pocket I pulled it out and it was
like email after email one dollar one
dollar one dollar one dollar wonder 500
dollars plus who is that and so I I
called Becca my wife and I said I said
turn off the TV whatever and she's like
but Zack my son is playing a game I said
turn it off now it was just racking up
he apparently was sitting there in some
racecar game where you can like push the
button over and over and over again to
increase your your power of the car or
something and it's taken a dollar at a
time to do I hope you won that race
they were great about it Amazon because
I think this was actually an Amazon no
it was it wasn't Google it was an Amazon
fire stick oh yeah that's how it
happened it was my Amazon account so I
contacted Amazon they reversed it it was
no problem but a real learning
experience so then I started adding my
password to every device that I share
with the kids right you've got to do it
so parents yeah this new game right like
you want to watch out for that you'll
for sure want to poke a phone f ones I
love it has it has second space so I
have my own profile for everything and
then I have a second one that has just
the games for the kids and and I use
that profile when I do now I use it when
I do demonstrations on the air because
then if my wife messages me and it pops
up like private messages it doesn't show
up on the air with
we've had happen before all her romantic
messages as we're on the air so that's a
cool feature so turn on the password
protection anyway should should protect
you I want to take a quick look at our
cryptocurrency market as of 1800 hours
Wednesday August 28 2019 Bitcoin is down
quite a bit four hundred five dollars
down to nine thousand six hundred
seventy six dollars and 28 cents
Facebook Libre is holding steady at zero
because it's not actually trading yet
but one day we're gonna find that it is
trading and that will be exciting light
coin is also down everything's down this
week sixty six dollars and forty cents
is the Fiat value of that in US dollars
if Theory M is down at 170 201 Manero at
72 13 turtle coin is at 0.49 ten
thousandths of a cent and another coin
that has lost a lot we've called it
stellite and then they changed their
name to torque and then they were doing
quite well this week they've lost
another zero point five six ten
thousandths of a cent so they basically
cut the coin in half and are you ready
for this they've changed their name
again I don't know what they're doing
but Scala is the name of the coin
currency formerly known as yeah exactly
so you go to stellite and it says it's
now called torque and then you go to
torque and it's now called Scala Scala
but torque was doing really well and
then Scala is now you know I don't know
if people have lost confidence in it
because and you know what it could also
be it's a pain in the butt when they
change their coins so much right because
if I'm mining I find crypto mining I
have to reinstall and reconfigure
everything and install the new crypto
minor install the new wallets and
everything it's like oh you know why I'm
just moving on to a different coin
turtle coin has been pretty stable and
and it's another micro coin they should
have kept it at torque that's a solid
name I think it's just another case of
they probably found a company that said
we already own that train trade mark
maybe they should start googling the
names that they come up with I got an
idea let's call it Tesla right you know
yeah and that's your coins
you I will put money on the fact that it
when Facebook come the Facebook Libre
yeah it'll have to gain its first week
you can't go yep so invest now oh wait
you can't
yeah yeah big thanks Roy D'Elia national
community of viewers for civic stories
to us this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm Robby
Ferguson hey stick around I have a Linux
tool that is going to blow your mind for
the Linux terminal don't go anywhere
[Music]
Sasha what is the weather like today I
don't know that's gonna be like tomorrow
what's it gonna be like at the CN tower
cuz I want to go there great like these
are all very valid questions it's true
you can ask your Amazon echo or your
Google home Mini yes but wouldn't it be
nice to be able just to log in ssh into
your linux server yes or maybe just hit
ctrl alt f1 log into your your tty 1 and
like well in the linux terminal find out
what is the weather forecast and sure
you could probably get like JSON output
you could get like some kind of textual
representation that you know uses cows a
to put the current forecasts in a word
balloon or something like that right but
let's take it one step further with
weather forecasts like you've never seen
them before in the linux terminal well
why does it matter robbie well sometimes
you're standing as a server and you
don't have access to X and you want to
be able to bring up the weather forecast
okay or maybe you want to script this
into your script maybe you want to make
it your message of the day so that every
time you log in it gives you the weather
forecast in the current conditions right
if you want to come
times you just want to know some really
cool things you can do in your Linux
terminal like you know yeah that's
exactly why we're doing this folks so
alright I'm gonna jump over to my Linux
terminal right now the service is called
wtt rin I'm going to use curl so I'm
gonna go app install curl notice I am
route did you make note of that I did no
I logged in as root so that I could do
that or you could use sudo and enter
your password yes okay so app install
curl hit enter oh look at me I've
already got curl installed that's
fantastic so with curl I can download a
website or anything like that but watch
what's gonna happen if I type curl and
then HTTP colon slash slash v2 wtt Rin
that's the website hit enter and unlike
any terminal based weather forecast that
you have ever seen let's zoom in a
little bit I'm gonna hit ctrl shift plus
look at this so this is all ascii-based
look at that so now it's giving me a
weather report for cream or Canada
where's cream or Sasha
well let's close yeah it's about an hour
okay so this is probably not the most
accurate for me so let's say well what
if I want to actually see berry so I'm
gonna add a slash and we're gonna say
Barry because that's where I am so
notice I've actually pressed up to add
that to the URL so my actual command is
curl and then HTTP colon slash slash v2
dot w TR TT Rin slash Barry hit enter
and what does it do look at that
location
Barry Simcoe Ontario Canada not afford
cast so we've got the conditions we've
got our forecast what are we looking at
excellent beautiful cold overnight
yes not too cold
alright so let's let's actually let's
say we want to look up I use the example
about the CN tower well let's say I want
to go to the CN tower tomorrow so I
really want to know what's the forecast
looking like over there
I'm gonna go curl HTTP colon slash slash
right v2 dot W tter I envy to being the
the current version so watch watch what
I'm gonna do I'm just gonna hit enter on
that that's the current version if I
change it to v1 the original version
it's gonna be like the old like tech
space Soyuz v2 okay it looks beautiful
v1 gets a little bit wonky so with that
right there at the bottom of your screen
v 2 w TT Rin slash now my search query
is going to use a tilde that tells it I
want to search so I'm gonna type CN plus
tower and the plus is in place of a
space now hit enter and it's giving me
the forecast for the CN tower a 301
Front Street West in Toronto super cool
isn't that neat so now sure I'm gonna do
that I'm gonna hit up and I'm gonna go
could I just do I don't need a search
I'm just going to type bona Plus Vista
let's see if Victoria let's try on buona
Vista Newfoundland there you go yep so
there's the forecast for Bonavista very
cool right
ok so let's let's take it to the next
level because I want to script this I'd
like to use this for like maybe a cron
job that automatically downloads the
weather and then I can use a widget on
my desktop to show it or or I can write
a program to email me if the weather
forecast is going to be rain or whatever
I want to do but I need to have some
kind of textual output not this big
fancy thing so what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna just change my query just a little
bit so I'm gonna go I'm gonna go curl
and with any of those commands let's
actually go up the so Bonavista right so
there's my download or my output from
Bonavista now I'm just gonna add a
question mark and then I'm going to type
format equals 3 ok and hit enter and
watch what happens
Bonavista the output Bonavista mix of
Sun and clouds with rain
fifteen degrees Celsius you see that so
that is the output in text format Bowl
what if I want to know okay so I've got
a I've got I want to know Bonavista I
want to know Barry and I want to know
the CN tower at the same time cuz I'm
gonna be going all those places right so
curl has a really cool feature that we
can tap into yes curl curl is like a
downloading tool for Linux terminal like
think W get but curl will actually like
output what what it's giving you okay
okay
so W get would save it to a file curl
will output it as you're seeing here
oh okay so with that so I want to I want
to turn this into watch my cursor there
below the keyboard input I'm going to
turn this into a curl command which is
to put braces around this just around
that part okay and now I can do comma
separated so in those braces the
squiggly braces
I can go comma CN plus tower oh I need a
tilde there don't I
because it's a search not a city and
comma very okay
enter and it's actually going to give me
those three forecasts output to my
terminal now that could be saved to a
text file I could pipe that into a text
file right and just do that just save it
to it to a file that's one thing that I
could do there's really no limit I mean
you can hey get creative with it it also
do Fahrenheit yes and in fact there are
so many other customizations you can
change the output format you can change
the way it looks you can do all kinds of
stuff with this and the best way to do
that and to learn like some of those
various features is to actually jump
onto the github because it is open
source as well so this with the web
service is fully hosted but the open
source code can be found at github comm
slash chubbin CH ubi N or Chubin /w t TR
dot i N
and when you go there just scroll down a
little ways and there's the full
documentation it's about 300 pages of
just here's all this stuff you can
it's brilliant it is amazing and he's
doing some fantastic work so check that
out that is super cool just a little
tick tip for your Linux terminal a
little way to spice things up that's all
the time that we have though Sasha
yes you were going to talk about patreon
yes yeah if you enjoy our show please
stand with us and pitch in as little or
as much as you can through our patreon
every person who becomes a patron member
helps us grow and gets access to some
pretty neat perks sign up today at
patreon.com slash category-five and
thank you to those of you who have
chosen to do so we appreciate it so very
much now it's more important than ever
we're coming up on season 13 if you can
believe it so please consider jumping on
to our patreon and we appreciate that
very very much that's all the time as I
mentioned don't forget to subscribe to
us on YouTube get us on like Roku Cody
Plex and also you can just go to our
website category 5 dot TV is a great way
to find all of our videos and if you
scroll down to the bottom and click on
subscribe and see other ways that you
can that you can get our content as well
and it's absolutely free so enjoy we
give it to you
there's BitTorrent too so yeah yeah you
can download the entire season all the
way up to now right like from the season
1 season 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 and 11 are
available on BitTorrent so you download
each individual one once season 12 is
done which is about 4 weeks away youtl
season 12 will be there as well so keep
that in mind
all right folks take care
[Applause]
