covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias Microsoft is shutting down
mixer it's video game live streaming
platform in a move that will affect
streamers from Tyler ninja Belvin zon
down in a statement released on mixers
official blog on Monday the streaming
service announced that it will be
shuttering its operations side and will
help mixer streamers transition to
Facebook gaming starting on July 22nd
mixer comm will redirect to FB Gigi in a
similar statement on its blog Facebook
gaming noted that mixer streamers that
choose to move to Facebook gaming will
be matching partner agreements as
closely as possible most famously ninja
had signed an exclusivity deal with
mixer in August 20 1942 30 million
dollars per year in an interview with
the verge Microsoft's head of gaming
Phil Spencer said that the move to shut
down mixer was a strategic one Spencer
said it wasn't as much about return on
sell it was about finding a partnership
partnership that was the best things for
the community and streamers we think
this is it and it gives us a great place
to launch more X cloud content and give
gamers the ability to play from there
while media is focused almost entirely
on the results of streamers the fact
remains mixer is closing down without so
much as notifying its staff trust and
safety staff urges uki said on twitter
monday guys we had no clue I found out
with the rest of you I am devastated I
have dedicated all I have to this
platform and this hurts
immensely according to Microsoft mixers
intellectual property and staff will be
transferred to the Microsoft teams
division on July 22nd but jesu key make
it sounds like that's not the case at
all she's tweeting a call for employers
to reach out to her if they're looking
to hire a strong willed empowered female
who focuses on efficiency and high
productivity with a team mentality and
she reads hit retweeted I am Brandon who
said there are a lot of people out of
jobs now due to mixer closing during a
pandemic what the AG LL
in January 2016 as beam mixer was
renamed after its acquisition by
Microsoft in 2017 the platform's attempt
to compete with twitch resulted in the
signings of major twitch streamers such
as ninja and shroud for huge monetary
deals despite these moves mixer was
unable to significantly approached which
is larger audience numbers
[Music]
