covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias Chinese ride-hailing firm DD
- Ching says it plans to operate more
than a million self-driving driving
vehicles by 2030 according to Dedes
chief operating officer Manning the robo
tacky taxis are to be deployed in places
where ride-hailing drivers are less
available the company last month
completed a more than 500 million dollar
fundraising round for the autonomous
driving unit led by Softbank group's
vision fund - Apple who is known to be
interested in the development of
autonomous driving invested 1 billion
dollars into DD back in 2016
last year DD said it would start using
autonomous vehicles to pick up
passengers in Beijing Shanghai and
Shenzhen this year before expanding the
scheme outside China in 2021 automakers
and tech companies in China are
investing heavily in the autonomous
driving industry to compete with the
likes of Tesla alphabet way Moe and uber
while some industry insiders say it will
take time for the public to trust
autonomous vehicles fully mang said
DeeDee expects autonomous vehicles to be
in mass production by 2025 competitors
are already offering Robo taxi service
but a fleet of 1 million vehicles would
put them all to shame we'll keep our eye
on this and see if DeeDee is able to
deliver
[Music]
