[Music]
welcome to today's coffee break
everybody
it is the 21st of June 2020 happy
Father's Day to the dads out there hey
everybody happy Father's Day to you too
cheers ice I don't
Sabu bp9 and now we've got you you're
logged in as Doug this time yeah Lance
Lance man 63 is with us here I prefer to
go to my by my real name
yeah okay Doug is here he's not even
you're not even gonna let me do the
intro the community coffee break here
category 5 TV is your opportunity to
hang out with myself and some folks from
the community we've welcome you to join
us and just go to our website category 5
dot TV and scroll down the home page
you'll find the coffee break and all the
information on how to connect and when
to connect so boo has something to talk
to us about a so bit yeah in the first
coffee break sometimes I was in the
kitchen making coffee and when the
device hit that I used doesn't have a
microphone so I could hear you but yeah
oh right yeah yeah yeah but today I have
a new set oh you have a while oh the
same those are nice
or did you buy another one no I did not
I have a friend a visiting me from my
own town and he gave me those very cool
man
those are coolers hello so Brees friend
[Laughter]
they look like a gaming parents on this
and the Sun they said excellent
it has a good base and yeah so are they
connecting to your computer through
bluetooth it has like a receiver yeah oh
okay cool
so does that show up as a separate sound
card yes very cool latency seems perfect
like it's like Oh privacy mode if you
wanted to you can still hear that right
even when you turn the microphone up yes
very nice very cool so we can't we can't
talk about you when you walk away I have
a question for you so boo when you're
making lunch when you're making that
yummy sandwich that you're making what
is it you put on that sandwich
how much cheese oh that's all it look
like you put so much more on it's
because I like that I like the Cuban
sandwich myself so I like a little more
than just ham and cheese on what is the
Cuban sandwich the Cuban sandwich oh it
has just has more layers of me would
that be like what we call a Dagwood no
it's got three different types of meat
on it I think it's turkey pork and
there's one other there's all my think
yeah turkey pork and ham I think and
it's got a sauce that goes with it I've
had them before they're pretty good mmm
yeah the one that the one that I get is
at the local deli here and they put it
on a on a Cuban bun slice the bun in
half open it up it's cheese on it
there's mustard on it there's maybe
mayonnaise I don't remember
and it's the it's also those three mates
as well it's just very they have a
version of mayonnaise that has something
else in it and it's actually it's
actually from Cuba aha okay there's a
sandwich that comes from Cuba if you
google Cuban sandwich you'll find out
what it's all about it's it's funny
because kenge was a Ken Jennings just
yesterday was talking about this Cuban
sandwich I'm sure of it oh sure
so this is really weird Twitter I'm just
gonna bring up his I'm just gonna bring
up Ken's Twitter account oh I swear it's
true because I saw a picture of this
sandwich and I'm like oh my gosh that
looks amazing
could it be that you're actually talking
about the same sandwich it may well be
is that jeopardy Ken Jennings yes that's
right
Wow I mean it may well be I mean this
term but to my knowledge is a local up
against the screen this is Ken Jennings
on Twitter says for all those wondering
this is Nestor the Cuban sandwich I just
ordered legally of course from unbe n we
share no blood but he is my life hello
can you guys it's a little blurry to
make it no but yeah easy enough so the
name on the Twitter account
twitter.com slash Ken Jennings and the
post is from June 18th I just feel it's
like so weird that you're mentioning the
sandwich and I'm like oh yeah Ken
Mandich into that sandwich is it all one
word Ken Jennings that's right
twitter.com slash Ken ke n je n n ing s
okay that does look good so it looks
like it's got like sauteed onion this
one might be a classic Cuban sandwich
though this is torture this is total
good I have not had lunch I have not
I hear My Father's Day meal is coming
tonight there are some there are some
slow smoked ribs on a smoker for me
somewhere yes yeah Peter just joining us
hi Peter I wondered who was making all
that noise I thought it had to be Peter
happy Father's Day Peter I hear you're
wrestling but I can't hear you speaking
that's better on now that is very what
problem a family problem I'm sorry to
hear that well hang in there Peter let's
just let him I was trying to say Peter I
like to say that our community coffee
break is a chance for us to come
together and just you know we all have
cares in this world we all have stresses
and frustrations I do you know that I do
and it's a great chance for us to just
kind of throw those aside and just hang
out with some some people that are into
the same kinds of texts that we're into
and we can talk about stuff that doesn't
bring us down you know and these days I
think we really need that because these
days you turn on the TV set you turn on
Twitter you turn other than Ken's
sandwich it's all negative oh yes so
welcome to the community coffee break
Peter because this is where we can throw
it all down
I can't hear any of that
yeah I'm having trouble theater sorry
now I'm hearing lots and lots of lots
and lots of rustling and I hope yeah
maybe you run a different microphones
know that better now yeah I think of the
again element we got the analogy down
more gradually down here the other day
they may become insecure - did you see
the thing on magazine about food also
life just being you that was oh I did
see a cute cute kind of commercial that
you posted on our discord yeah that was
that was silly anyway yeah so you were
saying last last week on the coffee
break you were saying you were gonna be
working on your antenna so this is like
a you said it was like a how many how
many feet tall was this thing 60 feet
tall oh wow
that's huge that's huge or something is
it so it's a very directional antenna
Robbie so he can antenna to various so
it's not just a long wire which would
broadcasting yeah all kinda different
direction
the yagi is a is a direction you can
point in specific to right there's an
antenna you can put specific directions
yeah really increasing strength we used
a yagi at studio D in order to in order
to point it directly at the cell tower
so so it just made it so that the signal
strength
our internet connection was that was
much much better oh yeah yeah I wanna
brag in the other side with how did it
come down yeah but you didn't tell the
community and I would never violate your
trust Peter okay okay okay what was the
gateway and knocking down all right I'm
a guide yes I remember being I mean that
we called yeah I've been looking around
for letting me in juvie and you don't
get it for love with money when you ever
touch I'm I just meant you got the
others I planned it or movie but the
problem is that because the God coming
to cut the growl and groan everywhere
because it is everywhere oh my gosh
Pierre well I'm glad you you appear to
be okay are you okay yeah I'd add the
brandy oh yeah I would have had a brandy
whether it went well or not I'm sorry to
hear that man so you last week you said
you weren't you weren't going to climb
again for you come is everybody okay I'm
glad to hear I'm glad to hear you guys
survived last Betty back up in the towel
yeah
when you actually win and between us
using mechanical engineering he's old as
I am with autism things dear mayor yeah
we're where we ni recently where I'll
old and leave between the two Utley
Saturday we told you down the wicked
right up with the elements that come to
shoot of blazing radiate out that one so
we have already had the discussion here
and and marsh man isn't here with us
today but I have I've got my little five
foot ladder sitting in the foyer there
and I won't even stand on that right
like without somebody spotting me and
without knowing that I'm safe I won't
even stand up on that I've got to get up
and get some lighting up in the studio
but well I'm glad you're okay and that
just goes to show in hindsight because
you and your friend are okay it's like
it can be over in a second
and you know we got to be really I mean
be careful dude I'd hate to lose
somebody from our community to something
like a fallen tower I know but you just
can't take the risks like look at me and
look at me in the studio like we're so
delayed but I'm not taking risks just to
get it done you know
oh boy that don't even go there
but Mary told me to get the antenna done
yeah I'm sure I'm sure
and baby jpv damn good thing gave me I'm
glad yeah Peter yeah you be you be more
careful man I've got to hand the floor
over to be p9 bp9 how have things been
going for you you've been getting into
any tech plan with that new pine book
that arrived a couple weeks back oh sure
the screens blank right now but yeah
I've been having all kinds of fun with
the pine book and actually I'm holding
up my this is my pine book pro here
sandwich I have pretty much switched to
the point book pro nail I have a fire up
the old laptop anymore and is so much
more powerful you immediately you
immediately put a different district on
there with oh right like you don't even
joke about what did you do i I replaced
it with excellent ooh yeah because the
reason why is because I like the XFC a
four window window manager that's like a
love for gnome - so which is no I know
and mash mentor not here to defend
himself so going to be careful what I
say I know that mash man doesn't like a
whole lot of choices
he says I wish everybody would just
stick to one standard I say no no I
rather have choices because Robbie you
get to stick with Manjaro and KDE and
you can stay there or with the gnome or
whatever it is you prefer yeah I get to
stick with its xfce and we're all happy
we've all gone saying basic sub system
underneath you've except I found some
issues with upgrading to a green to 2004
yes a lot of the utilities that I use
well I say a lot some of the utilities
that I use any that depend on the old
version of Python
I think it's Python 2 to 2.7 yeah true
quick and no longer available right run
you can't run them anymore because
python 2
point-7 isn't there anymore 2000 in
January right and the tool that I like
to use is called CVS to get it is a it
converts my seat yes my old C
repositories I did not do subversion
because I hate the branching paradigm in
subversion a CVS is pretty close and and
it seems to be the you know the golden
the golden solution at the moment so
yeah I know better than what is it
code service or whatever they call it
sauce sake I call it sauce unsafe but
anyway that's a whole nother story
to clarify microsoft owns github not get
yeah but Microsoft are using these for
all their yes but they don't own get no
no just like we used it but we don't own
it
my point is that they're so powerful and
so excellent in how you use it but even
Microsoft before they released an entire
ISO I'm still I'm still working on that
I'm still converting from CVS to get I
have husband hundreds of repositories
but you know probably half of which are
converted so I'm upgraded to have been
to 2004 I was not able to continue with
that migration effort I had to now it's
a Rube Goldberg machine now with just
six ports on the main machine and I
still have on a point book pro Ubuntu 18
gato
oh yeah and it still has CBS to get on
it you know I'm using I'm running CVS to
get on the NFS mounts
which I mounted to the main to the two
directories on the main machine it's a
bit rude goldberg but it's at least
working i i've run into the same problem
sorry Peter you're getting a lot of
wrestling there so I have to keep muting
you so if you unmute yourself don't
wrestle your microphone I've had a
similar issue bp9 with with NEMS linux
where i I'm always trying to be bleeding
edge and so I've been trying to get off
the 2.7 branch of Python for two years
and and the problem is is I've got
applications by third parties because a
lot of the the tools are just open
source applications that I've ported
over to nems
they are not following suit like adagios
I'm really concerned about the fact that
a dog EOS is not keeping up with Python
so like NEMS linux 1.6 was supposed to
have Python 3.8 and a dog EO still
requires 2.7 which is a big problem so
I've actually had to hold back my distro
to 2.7 in order to allow those
third-party applications to continue
operating which is and the community
concern the comments in CVS to get
specifically say this does not work with
Python 3 don't yeah with Python
framework but that's a problem because
Python 2.7 is dead yes I know there are
some who will say no it's not it's an
old version and it should be replaced
and they've been trying to get rid of it
the Python developers have been trying
to get rid of it for many years and now
they finally put their foot down and
said ok it's it's over yeah and the
distros are following suit so now it's
only 3.7 3.8 available in the
repositories but now all your old
programs that didn't follow suit are not
yep
that's a problem exactly right yeah
Peter I can't answer that today on the
coffee break
you'd be best to post that in general on
on our discord or send it in as of your
question as far as Windows goes I don't
use Windows I don't do any programming
on when
I'm not the guy to ask but I do have to
hand the floor over to Doug Doug what do
you been up to well yesterday I'm sorry
Friday morning at 5:03 a.m. my third
granddaughter was born hey
congratulations is grandfather's day a
thing because happy grandfather's day is
now it means I am a father so I take
your father's Day wish thank you I also
got a new Roku so I'm playing with that
that's cool
well original Roku went gol I think in
February all right I've never had a rope
who died they already had that one for
probably about 10 years so oh wow I
didn't with that old
yeah they sent me a email saying that
your Roku is not going to work anymore
because it won't take the new update no
way oh I guess that's the problem that
they run by building such a die hard
device that just works and goes and goes
and goes yeah it lasted a long time I
hope that we're not going to run into
problems with the old channel because
they have been after me to reprogram the
channel and I really really want to it's
already having problems terrain good
point well the thing is to get it to to
get it on demand you get it off YouTube
or even off the cat five direction to
YouTube doesn't it and it's you know
replaying up YouTube no problem at all
and and getting it live off YouTube is
no problem at all
but yeah it's only the live broadcast
but yeah our roku channel doesn't use
youtube at all that's against the Terms
of Service for YouTube but our on-demand
uses Vimeo as its back-end and I have a
ws as a backup
so if Meo is down it rolls over to AWS
so the future moved to the new studio
yeah it's not showing up it's got a
weird latency thing with the new
internet connectivity
it's a strange thing so I need to do
some testing I need to get that's my
excuse Doug that's how that's how I'm
gonna justify buying a new Roku okay
well if you need some help with that
testing Robby just let me know thank you
very much
yes I definitely will sorry I'm gonna
I'm gonna send you a link on Twitter
about the Cuban sandwich - I found
something in Wikipedia perfect just
don't let me see it before dinner okay I
just I just heard bp9 didgeridoo so the
Australians apparently are running
around playing didgeridoos in the buff
talk about the not be nicer man lately
they were like you know that one over
there then they cook and Wednesday ones
are brothers well nobody would eat good
recipes and it goes you'll get your life
is that is any going to get Rudy jangle
grow into out and serve our diet sake no
he said it dodge it away quake 3 3 3 a
couple hours and is the drawing because
my we would claim that they got be aware
they but but but Peter did reduce are
not made from with angle grinders they
are made from tree trunk for me to say
needless to say I have added to my list
and naked didgeridoo crazies so that's
going to show up in the show know
Peter Peter you gotta be really careful
with late-night cable that did we do
that's what they were doing and coming
up next
Australians danced around with their did
you reduce no it's gotta be 2:00 a.m.
well guys it's been fun having you here
I'm gonna be here working at the studio
throughout the course of the weekend
kind of things set up I was here with my
wife Becca yesterday getting some things
unpacked getting things organized a
little bit it's looking like if we just
kind of chip away at it together because
she can be here with me because we don't
have to socially isolate between us
we'll be able to get some things done
and then the following week is
interesting because the following
Wednesday is July 1st which is Canada
Day here in Canada and that means I've
got a day off work which means I'm gonna
be here basically a full-time day
without having to go to my day job and
see how much I can get done so that's
where I'm hoping to get some sunlight
Ocoee things like enjoying your holiday
Robbie I mean yeah absolutely a midweek
holiday though I don't need it right
behind like honestly so I am gonna take
this weekend I'm gonna take some time
I'm gonna take the kids and my wife up
to the cottage and we're just gonna
relax and just take it easy so really
really looking forward to that and this
afternoon with it being Father's Day
they're all at home right now usually my
daughter would be here with me introduce
the church service in the morning but
she didn't come in with me today because
I guess there get there they're getting
ready for whatever Father's Day
festivities they have for me
for the family movie night we're gonna
just relax I'm gonna get like barbecue
sauce all over my fingers and I can't
watch pictures Robbie we were
I could use my robot with the robot you
just go like that and it counts down
from three and takes your pictures so
then I don't have to get any sticky
stuff on my phone all that said just
please keep in mind next Sunday I will
not be able to do a coffee break so I'm
trying to do this every week and there
will be the occasion like that where
okay so next week I am next weekend I am
taking my family to the cottage I'm not
gonna have internet connectivity so I
can't I can't be here and I can't even
remote in to be able to turn on the feed
for you guys to host it yourself so
we're gonna take a week off from coffee
break I'm gonna miss you but I'll be
here on Wednesdays and I'm also going to
be vlogging on the Kickstarter and the
patreon so make sure you're following
those and and checking those videos as
well so have a wonderful week everybody
see I enjoyed it
enjoy everybody here take it easy bye
Peter I'm trying to I can unmute them
why can't I unmute you there easy man
stay off things
