welcome to category five technology TV
exciting week for us tonight because we
are talking about the Orville and some
really exciting news that it kind of
veiled on the weekend that continues to
be unveiled tonight you don't want to
miss it stick around put everything
aside prepare for this and just wait for
that ominous moment where you go our
live recordings are trusted only two
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
with Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with Telestream wire cast and
nimble streamer tune in every week on
Roku Cody flex and other HLS video
players for local show times visit
category 5 TV category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here cat 5 TV slash TPM and the
International Association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show everybody so great
to have you here for episode number 609
we've got a great show planned this week
and it's been quite a week hasn't it it
sure had you and me are superstars at a
live video game that we are I'm kind of
jealous would you like an autograph yes
you weren't here that week I know don't
rub it in anybody who's watching the
show a fan of the Orval yes yeah me too
me too Jeff so that's why I was so
honored when the Orval interactive fan
experience decided to feature Sasha and
I in game yeah but I did notice you're
both in red shirts I gave them a hard
time over that and they said go Robby go
save the ship and you didn't have
weapons either I did there's a battle
going on they're the ones in red shirts
without weapons I'm like I feel like
somebody's being set up yes
so the Kalon are
attacking the Orval in their trailer
yeah and Sasha and I with me at the lead
so thank you very much
messy desk interactive for putting me at
a lead I'm running out to war to Kalon
war here with nothing in my hands like
as if I'm just what am I gonna do punch
a Kalon tackle them do you think so
that's right no luckily off to my right
Bordas is about to stun the guy with
whatever phaser rifle setting that he's
got set so but at least I'm in front so
I'm protecting you Sasha
I'm guessing that Jeff you're you're
perhaps the person that's crouched in
behind sash I like ya please don't hurt
me guessing you're the guy running into
danger all like courageous like I don't
know why why did they put me in a red
shirt because running out in front of a
Kalon attack with board√≠s and the Kalon
going at it and I am running out into
that action because that's with nothing
in my hands okay
maybe wicked alright we need to get out
of your ego trip here no it's not an ego
trip I was honored if anything else very
cool and so if you don't know what we're
talking about of course follow our new
Twitter channel I beg you Union
underscore point on Twitter now explain
that one for somebody who doesn't know
the Orville well if you are a fan of the
Orville that's the place to be because
that's where we are working with a
variety of people that are working with
the Orville in order to I don't know
leak stuff that is coming soon you know
that kind of stuff get in the know
yeah you know and speaking of leaking
stuff that is coming soon this evening
this week on category five technology TV
we are joined by one of the creators of
the Orville the
interactive fan experience so I'm gonna
be speaking with Dan and we're gonna be
talking about that that project how
they've been able to make that come
about and just incidentally so and and
part of why I guess we were featured is
because this is the same company the
same production studio that created the
stage 9 recreation of the Starship
Enterprise you remember that so yeah we
went in and we we dressed up in
Starfleet uniforms we were on a green
screen and we showed off their project
and then CBS shut it down I kinda like
CBS has been doing that a lot with the
Star Trek stuff well yeah yeah so Fox on
the other hand has at least said hey
this can go forward and so that's where
the Orville interactive fan experience
comes in so tonight we're gonna be
talking about that learning about it
from one of the very creators of that
project and just keeping in the back of
our minds that it's the same people that
brought us stage 9 is what it was called
NCC 1701 D the Starship Enterprise from
Star Trek The Next Generation and it was
a lot of fun supporting them back then
and now with this new unveiling of this
product for the Orval we're very
thrilled to be a part of that and
finally able to talk about it that's
right yeah so that's coming up later in
the show today before we get into it
make sure that you subscribe to us on
youtube you can make sure also that you
check off that bell that's gonna ensure
that you receive those notifications
whenever we are live so if you're on
your phone it's gonna say hey category 5
TV is live and that's your time to to
fire it up pop the popcorn and get ready
to go shall we jump into it so we are
speaking about the Orville and the
Orville fan interactive fan experience
here this week and so I'm gonna jump
over to the green screen and we're gonna
have a chat with one of the creators
okay
I'm speaking with Dan Gover he's the
project lead at the Orville interactive
fan experience at messy desk interactive
welcome to the showdown thank you that
is good Fiona
first off how did your ragtag group of
genius miscreants get started well I
guess it all began with a bunch of geeks
just hanging out on the internet
throwing together some Star Trek meshes
and slowly we kind of evolved into a
semi organized group doing the
enterprise-d okay
yeah just ever just mentioning the
enterprise-d so those who are not aware
stage nine you may be familiar with the
name CBS and cease-and-desist comes to
mind you and your team have been through
a lot dan you've had some time to
process it how at this point do you feel
about that whole thing well to be honest
though we like to look upon it as an
opportunity and it was a good practice
run and managing a project with that
kind of scale you know obviously we
would have loved continued doing the
enterprise-d but this wasn't possible
but luckily there is a another show out
there which holds all the ideals we're
told they're at the heart so obvious
choice is it just me or does sometimes
it seems as though avis shine upon you
as a fan creation Dan stage nine and now
of course the Orville interactive fan
experience they're very much a labor of
love for you and your team so when the
cease-and-desist happened a lot of us
would simply give up you know your
dreams are like shot down in an instant
like that we were all really really
excited about what stage 9 was doing you
were gaining momentum and then suddenly
snap CBS shut it down so can I just ask
like on a personal level for yourself
and for your team what kept you guys
going hey grim determination initially
and you know we explored every
when you we possibly could try and you
know keep the project alive and in the
end I mean even after it was obvious
that there wasn't going to go anyway
no we thought ourselves it's a lot of
talented guides crazy boss I think we're
losing you there if you could just if
you just watch we seem to be losing you
but I think you're back sorry yeah there
you go yes Evan you know we had a very
talented team and developers and would
have been crazy to break that team up
yeah think so you know we decided you
know let's stick together let's do
something else that's fine make the next
project even more special than the last
let's see what shows come along that are
not made by CBS Dan you guys made the
announcement on Monday and since then
we've been leaking screenshots through
our Twitter account to fans of the Orval
just so that they can see what's coming
from messy desk how is the response
being from the fans for you guys wow
it's been humbling honestly it's been
extreme I mean we thought fans would
probably get a kick out what we're doing
um but it exploded overnight I think we
had an extra 350 people join our discord
just in in one afternoon wonderful and
yeah absolutely mental and well you know
honestly we were so excited this project
they're seeing the family so I'm proud
drives us that little bit harder like
and how about the creators of the Orval
you tell us a little bit about how
they've responded to your fan project
sure yeah and we we initially made a few
phone calls hit some dead ends didn't
really know who to talk to do but in the
end we got a hold of Tom on reddit yeah
and told a huge huge figure in the
community he does such an amazing job of
getting the message out there
[Applause]
because he represents doesn't he he
really represents to us what what a
community ambassador should should be
like yeah absolutely and you know and we
sent him a pitch video and he sent it
back and said Wow everyone loves then we
thought you know what I think this can
go somewhere yeah so can I ask that
pitch video was it stage 9 was at NCC
1701 D or had you been working on
something to do with the or Bell and so
you know we actually started work on the
project about October for the beginning
of October last year so we had some of
that from the first deck bridge ready
room and we just did a quick fly around
share what we and he had a favorite it's
since your launch or since the
announcement of the coming launch of
what has been the response of the
creators of the show they they've been
really supportive and they're pumped for
any kind of official backing licensed
right now you know they're they're fans
of the project as much as we're fans of
your bill know so we've got it like a
fan to fan relationship yeah there's
nothing official going on it's great
that they love it and it's great that
they get a kick out isn't that cool
so behind the scenes being a fan project
it's not officially endorsed but what
kind of you know what kind of blessing
do you have from the creators or what
kind of okay do you have to go ahead and
do this I guess the best we've achieved
is we haven't been told not to do the
project we had a meeting with Fox you
know Fox know who we are you know what
we're doing yeah you know they haven't
given an official
green light but we have been allowed to
go ahead and do a fan project completely
non-commercial or fans by fans in an on
that basis and a happy frickin list very
good I can't wait to see where it goes
it's time for us to take a really quick
break down when we get back we're gonna
see some more in-game renders and we're
gonna find out details about the game
itself from the project lead an NGO veer
and ultimately we're gonna get to the
bottom of how you can set your virtual
foot on the decks of the Orval stick
around
[Music]
let's talk about the underlying
technology I hear you're using a current
version of Unreal Engine 4 so Dan what
has that meant for both you in the
production end and by you I mean messy
desk the entire team and what does it
mean for the fans as well but it's um
it's it really that's a huge platform
and it does things like we are out of
the box really really well yeah and it's
those um it's a score system relying on
quite heavily and an Unreal Engine is
you know the blueprint interface is
something that we're very fond of you
can prototype system it's really really
now it's real fast it's mostly stable
yeah it's good to work with and also
it's got quite a lot of cross platform
supports so there are things like
steamvr and stuff i supported out of the
box which which is yeah that's huge you
made the announcement and posted the
video on Monday and it was really
exciting of course for myself and Sasha
to see our likeness featured so I
suggested a couple of minor adjustments
to our models just to make them look a
little more true to us and you said that
in fact players are going to be able to
modify their own character models
in-game can you tell us about that sure
I guess you can think of it as I can MMO
style character customization so you
know the body width and different facial
styles hair style uniform colors that
kind of thing
yeah maybe extend it to other things
like the old stage 9 Christmas ham I
spotted that that was one of the Easter
eggs yeah yeah is it gonna have
multiplayer it's banned for day one I
mean we have tested it he's working it
needs a little bit more stress thing for
sure yes and obviously we want to
release something that works well and
not something that works lightly yeah
yeah what kinds of a fight
sorry I know our connection between
Earth and and Europa is a little shaky
tonight but I lost you just at the end
there what kinds of multiplayer should
we expect dem like are we talking
deathmatch are we talking collaborative
sure well initially it's going to be
late you just hang out with your friends
explore the ship together you know just
have some adventures but you'll also be
able to you pick up a pistol shoot your
friend in the face yeah so yeah there
are all kinds of shenanigans you can get
up to in multiplayer and we're quite
keen to to make a playground the players
to make their own adventures in addition
to that sounds awesome I wasn't
expecting the multiplayer aspect do we
need to set up a server are there going
to be publicly accessible servers I can
imagine that Union point is going to
launch one if that's an available option
we're looking at steam as a distribution
okay so we'll be using the steam
multiplayer functionality oh great so
you should best direct connect your
friends let's peer-to-peer and if there
are some potential licensing issues
there with it being an existing IP and
whether or not we have permission to use
steam but that's that's the number one
fun yeah not we're looking at something
like a Minecraft model so you can maybe
run your own server friends you know
just joining exit mmm that could be cool
what other features can we expect that
will really get us excited as far as
like out of the box
at launch day what are we what are we
gonna see and wow it's difficult to say
because we're going to do a staged
release so much like stage 9 and we'll
the nice release an initial version of
the project yeah and that project will
evolve over time so I'll add more
features um hopefully we'll have the
environment simulator a lot on launch
where you can load different sim
ideas that will hide the actual chips
the power the different Sims around
so you better fine take them back to the
nearest Eastern buggy
plenty of opportunity for Easter eggs
they're very good
well what kind when I think about these
features that are gonna be coming at me
it sounds like the you're you're
planning to launch pretty well like
fully playable product right on day one
is that right pretty much and a lot of
the won't be fleshed out initially
again same the stage nine so like that
um there are I'm gonna say ten decks
yeah so far I mean it's a bit of a
squeeze it looks like that staircase
goes down about a thousand decks it
looks more than it is it's only ten yeah
okay how are you finding the size of the
ship compared to NCC 1701 D is is this
yeah I think in terms of internal volume
you're looking something about the size
of Voyager okay it's not a big ship yeah
absolutely
and we're gonna be able to tour it in a
very short amount of time what kind of
hardware requirements are there going to
be for this less than stage nine it's
optimized stage nine so if you ran
station I'm pretty well then you should
be fine um I if I pressed then they got
a gtx 960 and I usually fall 50,000
second first place for me it's working
fine on a relatively mid weight if I
don't have a VR headset am I still gonna
be able to play okay yeah yeah so it's
gonna support first-person NVR be
optional and we're hoping this time to
get both in the same release it says
before you had to download two separate
versions and so hopefully we'll get
those but oh well that'd be fantastic
well that's great speaking of like
versions and releases are we gonna be
seeing this project available for Mac
Windows Linux Android are you targeting
a particular platform
the initial Windows Mac and Linux so all
three ported great um we've got a lot of
people requesting psvr and yes we'd like
to but the dev kits quite expensive
obviously for a fee free fan project but
yes if we can we will um and then yes we
might have to a cut-down version for
mobiles but I think station I was
working briefly on mobile so it's
something we'll explore cool that raises
an interesting kind of situation that
you have is that it could cost a lot of
money to implement some of the features
that fans want to see but you can't
charge for the product because it's a
fan production correct so so how do you
how how do you make that work like is
this all out of pocket or is this
something is there some way that the
community can back it right now it's all
literally as you said this this is a
labor of love you know if we need a
feature we implement that feature it's
how long it takes or how hard it is it's
kind of irrelevant is if we want it bad
enough and that goes for the community
as well the community at large as a
particular feature that they're really
keen on staying in okay and we'll do our
best
got it in there you're good and speaking
of the fact that you can't can't
monetize it how much will it cost us to
install and I know the answer and I
think that you watching it at home know
the answer but how much is this gonna
cost us three free completely free so
what still has to happen I mean we're we
know that you're hoping for early summer
release 2019 what has to happen still
before you can release the game to the
public so we're actually looking to
release a set or so so the order was set
on stage 15 box page 15 and and we're
going to recreate stage 15 as best we
can and so it's just basically the first
two decks
oh we have to have up maybe three to
four people but it's actually just the
first two that bit of a taster so you
gonna tease us even more why - of the
whole ship and that's just to give the
fans you know something to play while
they wait for us to release the the
proper version one yeah we need to
completely dismantle that and rearrange
a thing so it makes more sense as a
proper working starship the layouts on
the soundstage it's not that sounds
great
it's gonna be nice that you know I love
that you're at least giving us a taste
that we can get in and actually try it
see how our hardware handles it and get
ready for what's next
do you have any particular needs in your
organization that perhaps somebody in
our community can support if you know if
you're looking for a particular talent
or skill set are there any of those that
are still maybe lacking or perhaps could
use a little bit of help yeah so we
recently took on someone that we found
on Twitter if there's someone out there
and they're doing you know quality or
bill related where just as a passion
project so that's exactly the kind of
person you bring on Steam is it someone
that's you know they're already into the
or bill they already loved the I know
they feel that creative meet yeah
modeling and drawing and it's those kind
of people looking for so yeah I mean if
you can tell you know they best to reach
out to you on Twitter or what's what's
the best way to get ahold of you discord
discord alright and we'll post links for
you so if you're watching this and
wondering okay how can I find this we're
gonna post links below and of course if
you if you follow us on Twitter Union
underscore point we will have those
links for you there as well Dan thank
you so much to you and the team at messy
desk interactive for your countless
hours I mean I can't even imagine all
the work that you have put into this
for the fans of the orville and an extra
special thanks to those who create the
Orval for allowing this fan creation to
go forward you truly do remind us sci-fi
fans what a real community ambassador
should look like that is so awesome I'm
so excited about this beautiful oh yes
yeah Unreal Engine 4 is astonishing in
its own right but I mean the team at
Massey desk have just done a fantastic
job of recreating the entire experience
so much so that Tom in fact said on
Twitter that it's so realistic it's
scary like this is the guy this is the
guy who's standing there while the films
are while the crew is filming and he's
standing in the actual physical studio
space and now looking at the virtual
space and saying that is uncanny
that's what they've been doing you ought
to come play it over at my house I would
like that geez God isn't the vine I
survived eyes and you know what I need
to forego other life expenses like food
just so I can buy a beer and that's what
folks are saying and I had no interest
in him in VR but now I want to go out
and buy it that's what folks are saying
on Twitter and and that's kind of my
thought as well I'm kind of feeling that
way exactly yeah and who would have
thought that the Orval a creation of
Seth MacFarlane would would bring us
here I know like when the show first
started it was kind of a joke not a joke
isn't like home I thought it was going
to be a spoon yeah is what it's cut I
was like this cult following now already
it's a great show season 3 hasn't even
started but he's brilliant so that's
yeah yes sense that this would just and
I say yes with that vocal fry a little
bit because yes he is brilliant but I
still can't get past the fact that Seth
MacFarlane is Brian yeah and I said that
to my wife Becca I said like oh look
Seth MacFarlane has brought out some
some music and he's crooning and he's
Fantana
but he's also bid himself in the but by
being Brian so when I hear his music I'm
thinking that's Brian in my mind's eyes
right past that I even said to my wife I
wish that I never saw the fan of Family
Guy so if you haven't seen Family Guy
don't watch it until you've already
become a fan so you're those people that
can like just lock and load a voice and
you have as soon as I hear Seth
MacFarlane's crooning I picture Brian
it's you're the dog person to say that
today I was talking to somebody at work
about this and he's like you know what I
love you or bill he's like but all I
hear is Brian yeah I'm not that person
I can I can suffer at Mercer though I
can separate a little easier because
he's not singing right and there's a
visual and he's doing a fantastic job
and he's doing a lot I mean some folks
have said maybe he's talking taken on
too much by being like this show's
creator and like overseer and superstar
and you can't be driven by passion and
want to do as much as you possibly can
do if he's just doing as like as much as
he his passion allow not only passion of
a talent but look at it from the same
way as cat5 like right now you are like
the jack-of-all-trades forget five but
imagine I feel like I just want some
spare time I'm gonna farm out some of
these function you would lose some of
that control yeah and it wouldn't have
that essence of please take some of that
free did I mention I'm gonna be here
until 11 o'clock at night but I can
totally see on on his aspect
he's looking at ago but this is how I
maintain the vision I want
oh absolutely absolutely yeah and and
what has been created here he is a
fandom that is beyond anything that I've
ever seen in my lifetime I missed it for
the next generation I was a child yep I
was at an early teen and I missed it for
enterprise because I didn't know that it
was as good as it was and so I didn't
get into it until after it ended
yeah there was no Twitter back then
there was no social media so I missed
the boat on that and here we are now
here we've got an opportunity to be a
part of a fan base that is active that's
socially active so we have Twitter and
Twitter is the best place probably to
find the Orval and with things like our
channel on Twitter Union underscore
point you're gonna find that there's
just so much of a community there it's
so much so that even the creators of the
show are interacting with the fan base
and so when we say that tom is
interacting with the fan base like
that's what we mean but the very people
who are working with the show and on set
are in fact the people that are tweeting
and sharing behind the scenes and and
talking with the fans right so it's a
whole different world mm-hmm so exciting
I'm excited what the future's got for us
I know that we are videogame superstars
but we're also fans right right yeah
like we can wear both hats with you
we're we are also so yeah but when you
see us in the game you'd be like there's
there's Robbie there's Sasha
speaking of Sasha it's time for the
Sasha show are you ready
search for the Sasha show folks are you
ready for the Sasha show here we go
all right well on that note on the
barbershop it's inflamed we need 20s
barbershop music for this action show
Sasha shows I'm picturing like Sasha
yeah you do that we need to work on our
harmonies after team show yeah next week
folks we're gonna have the barbershop
the duet here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom remember Microsoft's Patch
Tuesday security update with all the
critical security fixes Sophos is
telling us the telling us users to roll
it back if they want to be able to boot
their computer baltimore's ransomware
nightmare could last weeks more with big
consequences as houses can't be sold and
bills can't be paid while city networks
who shattered
South Korea wants to switch guard to
switch government computers to Linux
based software ditching Microsoft
Windows in the process and Google
admitted Tuesday it's paid for G suite
of cloudy apps aimed at businesses
stored some user passwords in encrypted
plain text these stories are coming
right up
don't go anywhere this is the category
five TV newsroom covering your week's
top tech stories we sleep Linux by us
Jeff Westen Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
aren't you your terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash DreamHost to
sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host I'm sorry Rickman and here
are the top stories were following this
week remember Microsoft's Patch Tuesday
security update with all the critical
security fixes so Foss is telling its
users to roll it back if they want to be
able to boot their computer these are
the same patches that protect servers
against the latest Intel exploits in an
end advisory note published over the
weekend Sophos admitted that the latest
batch of Windows updates are causing the
machines of some people using its
antivirus software to hang on boot well
getting stuck while displaying the
message configuring 30 percent its
advice on what to do is pretty blunt
uninstall Windows Update specifically
revert KB for $4.99 164 and KB for $4.99
165 the problem with that advice is that
the patches are intended to mitigate a
nasty vulnerability which permits on a
fake on Ithaca authenticated remote code
execution through the Remote Desktop
service we pointed out last week that
the issue is so serious that Microsoft
has even released patches for its long
unsupported operating systems Windows
2003 and Windows XP Sophos themselves
have also reiterated the severity of
this exploit yet their advice for
remains remove the fix Microsoft is
taking this bug very seriously saying
the vulnerability could be abused to
spread a worm similar to the way the
wanna cry propagated networks a couple
of years back
so far nobody has seen and in the wild
use of the exploit for this
vulnerability identified by Microsoft
but in this day and age it's only a
question of time especially now that
miscreants know about the issue quote
Sophos is working diligently on
determining the issue and will provide
ongoing customer guidance and quote in
other words they're being vague about
what the problem is how long it will be
before they fix it for their users
sorry concerning beanbag go figure
yeah but a security company who says hey
remove the security patches that's
dangerous
yeah yes and these are dangerous
precedent exactly yeah
so asking somebody to remove the update
that protects them from the wanna wanna
cry like exploit seems worse to me than
saying I'm sorry that you've lost your
computer hang tight we'll figure
something out sorry it's second 30% let
you know what I mean like I wouldn't be
saying to people now just go ahead and
uninstall you know what let's fix the
problem yeah make it so it's not a
problem yes amazing if I don't and even
if it was just somebody going well what
have they do in the meantime I'll just
all install it like you know well
somebody just nothing like well they can
just get rid of it
I think they just determined that this
is a problem between Sophos and the
Windows Update so what do you do do you
remove Sophos no and all Linux you don't
yeah install the update that's going to
protect against a huge ransomware
exploit like it's gonna be huge can be
it could be huge no it's I mean this is
a code execution exploit that allows not
only the execution but the propagation
of a worm right on a network of
computers so with one compromised
computer which is easy to compromise and
to elevate your privileges to a point
where you can execute tasks as the
administrator without any
intervention or issue yeah I don't even
having to know appendage it was serious
enough that Windows was willing to yeah
like Microsoft Microsoft was like hey
antiquated unsupported operating systems
here like like I will happily cover this
update for you the problem is though
chances are if somebody's still running
an old version like XP or something
their system may not be able to handle
the upgraded software like you couldn't
just take an old XP computer and put
Windows 10 on the Colo it grind to a
halt but also that brings to mind
another thought is that if you're using
Windows XP and you have Sophos you are
using an old version of Sophos right you
can't install the new version because it
requires Windows 10 right that's
something I haven't thought of
did you just install Linux that's our
answer to everything yes if you want to
breathe new life into your computer and
forget about all these woes that you
hear about week after week because we're
always going on about Microsoft screwing
things up and breaking things sitting at
30% updated and so because I work in the
industry especially if you get to 30%
quickly that's the thing oh it's just
clocking along I'll just go whip up a
grilled cheese or something going on
back like 30 yeah you're like oh wait
hold on here something I always end up
doing you're the updates overnight
mm-hmm and that way I don't have to also
you plan your windows update I plan my
updates wow that's a novel idea doesn't
implanted a and my two options are
update and shutdown or update and
restart and I'm like oh wait now that's
it
and from the mind of soul boo in our
chat room who says computers are like
air conditioners they don't work
properly if you open windows Oh
last word mic drop yeah
Baltimore's ransomware nightmare could
last weeks more with big consequences as
houses can't be sold and bills can't be
paid while city networks are shuttered
it's been nearly two weeks since the
city of Baltimore's networks were shut
down in response to a ransomware attack
and there's still no end in sight to the
attacks impact it might be weeks more
before the city services returns or
something resembling normal manual
workarounds are being put in place to
handle some services now but the city's
water billing and other payment system
to remain offline as well as most of the
city's emails and much of the
government's phone systems unlike the
city of Atlanta which suffered from a
samsam ransomware attack in March of
2018 Baltimore has no insurance to cover
the cost of a cyber attack so the cost
of cleaning up the robin hood ransomware
which will far exceed the approximately
$70,000 the ransomware operators
demanded will be borne entirely by
Baltimore citizens
Baltimore's Information Security Manager
warned of the need for such a policy
during a budget hearing last year but in
the final the final budget did not
include funds for that policy nor did it
include funding for expanded security
training for city employees or other
strategic investments that were part of
the mayor's strategic plan for the
city's information technology
infrastructure city officials have
provided a few details about the extent
of the attack as the city is cooperating
with an FBI investigation but it appears
that the ransomware was triggered on
some systems in the early hours of May
7th when email service was suddenly
interrupted the city's response to the
attack has thrown many city services
into disorder or shut them down entirely
the attack was first reported by
Baltimore's Department of Public Works
when the department's official Twitter
account announced that its email access
was cut off and it reported phones and
other systems were affected soon
afterward as it became clear what was
happening the city's Office of
Information Technology team shut down
nearly all of the
city's non-emergency systems to prevent
the further spread of the attack it's
not clear how widespread the ransomware
was within the network but the city's
email and IP based phones were among the
systems affected the mayor's office of
information technology has been
struggling to regain its footing over
the past two years after a string of
fire chief information officers four
consecutive CIOs were fired or forced to
resign over a period of five years Frank
Johnson who now holds the titles of both
cio and digital officer for the city was
hired in November 2017 after leaving a
position as a regional vice president of
sales for Intel Johnson led the
development of a digital strategy for
the city that aim to bring Baltimore's
IT spending more in line with those of
similar sized cities and transform its
IT practices according to a 2018
strategy document Baltimore spends about
half of what other cities budget for IT
and the office of information technology
only controls about 1% of the total
budget the city's primary website is
hosted on Amazon Web Services and
operated by a contractor but the city
almost lost that website earlier this
month - but not because of ransomware
the contracts for operating the site had
expired and the city was delinquent in
its payments first of all yeah did they
use Sophos by any chance yeah but they'd
like remove the patches that were gonna
protect them from this I feel like as
this story went on this was just a
series of unfortunate events mistakes
that could have easily have prevented
whole thing like when you say they had
an IT strategy but they didn't yeah they
oh they talked about increasing the
budget line for training but they didn't
oh they had people that weren't doing
their job so they got rid of them and
they hired somebody else but it didn't
work
it's like listen
it finally hired an IT person who knows
what they're doing doesn't listen to
them right who pitched a great idea yeah
and they just ignore them like can you
imagine that guy be like knock knock
knock I just want to say told you told
yourself exactly
so remember that but liking that I told
you might happen and probably what
happened but you know what something you
know what sucks he's a person just like
us right it's still his job yeah and
you're still just trying to eat your way
through life you know right and now
these these ransomware guys that have
got a hold on that city for the second
time in 12 months right so now what
listen to your IT manager the person
that you hired to be your CIO and put
some money into infrastructure that is
going to protect you from these types of
attacks don't be an idiot I
I truly feel like people need to wise up
in today's sure they do
Tech why does it take having to have an
entire city compromised twice in a row
are they gonna wise up now they gotta be
smart like I get budgets I get you know
cost savings but there are certain
things that you just don't want to
ignore it's it's kind of like life
insurance you know you should have life
insurance cuz you never know what's
gonna happen in life and a lot of people
like aw I can't afford life insurance I
don't want a bit maybe I'll never die
but you want to have that protection and
it's same with the tech look it's going
to happen in today's world something bad
is going to happen
protect yourself right so now this city
of Baltimore the residents are going to
have to foot the bill for the ransomware
yeah hold on
not even just to recover yeah for them
consider this the cost to mitigate
proactively would have been less right
than the cost to mitigate reactively
right think about that the number of
days that have been lost by
workers the the amount of money that
they're having to still pay staff yeah
no you have to bring in their home
laptop because they can't use work
computers but not only that I mean
imagine I don't want to imagine but you
think about the fact that people can't
pay their water bill what happens when
the city goes okay we got it all fixed
now I know it's been three months but
you now almost three months of water
bill and people are going I don't have
three months of water bill like that
money is gone
I'm know granted they should have
budgeted but is there gonna be
repercussions to this where it's like we
know I know we couldn't take your money
for three months but now you also
everything and cuz you know we got a
patient a fee for late payment so you're
thinking they're gonna have to collect
on debts do themselves in order I could
totally see that Hospice yeah and that's
just not fair to the citizens who are
probably sitting there thinking like I
am what the heck yeah what is our
government doing mr.bad I mean and this
is this trickles down this is not just a
government thing this is not just a
Baltimore thing this is a business thing
I've had customers who have been in the
same situation where ransomware has hit
after I've made suggestions for
proactive prevention right and backups
backups are a huge deal and ransomware
has hit and then they look at the cost
of recovery okay let's get back up and
running less okay we're back in business
two weeks later right after losing so
much business and so much time and then
okay let's just keep going along okay
we've we've we've recovered no hold on
you still don't have active backups you
still don't have proactive protection
against this thing and you still have
bloomin remote desktop turned on on your
computers what the heck are you thinking
no we need to stop this now so that it
doesn't happen again and then it happens
again this is what happened to Baltimore
right and this is what I've seen time
and time again and it's infuriating and
yet I I'm just the indignant IT guy that
is like aight i I told you so
right I told you so but not so much as
not to rub it in my face but to say come
on please listen
me right so please just spend the money
proact what is your what is your script
kind of sound like okay this time you
didn't prevent it but let's fix it and
let's prevent it for the future like it
always comes down to the money though
and that's where it's like okay you need
to be proactive but how do they assume
that they're not gonna be hit again like
how do they seem they're not nobody as
soon as we hit twice nobody's designed
if we have three dots the issue I people
think they're not gonna hit the I
already got hit yeah I'm good they're
gonna move on it doesn't work that way
you still have remote desktop turned on
and and I think we need to get through
our heads to mmm that ransomware attacks
are very often untargeted rights we fall
into this complacent state where we
believe that ransomware attacks are
targeted no they just look why would
anyone want to attack me exactly it's
not a person looking at you as a
business or company it's a dress that's
just looking for an open door and then
they find it and they get you it so
think of it this way so ransomware is
the teenage kid that is walking through
a parking lot of a mall pull in on every
door handle going on every door handle
just to see what one opens and as soon
as one opens what do they do
I'm not saying teenage kids are bad I
mean this is just an example just to put
an analogy on our brush open a door
opens what's on the seat what's what's
easy to grab right right so similarly if
you've got doors open and they're
walking around these are the bots you're
just walking around pulling on door
handles yeah it's not a targeted thing
it wasn't your car that they targeted
you left the stupid door open that's
right so lock your doors folks and if it
costs money to put a lock in then do it
and if we've learned anything from
Baltimore its what it is
listen to Robbie yeah buy money
antivirus
that'd be a good sale great they have no
money left South Korea wants to switch
government computers to Linux based
software nice yeah
ditching Oh Microsoft Windows in the
process the country's Ministry of the
Interior and Safety believe that
migrating away from Microsoft Windows
will lower costs and reduce reliance on
a single operating system with 2020
bringing the end of free support for
Windows 7 a system widely used
throughout the South Korean government
the timing is prudent there's no word
yet on what sort of Linux distribution
South Korea might use or whether the
government would create its own but
there are a few hurdles linux needs to
clear first
although linux is free to use for
anybody even government moving to a
linux based OS is not a cost-free
endeavor in fact the ministry expects
switching to linux will cost a cool 655
million dollars u.s. that takes into
account the price of a load
implementation transition and the
purchase of new pcs the ministry plans
to test run Linux on its systems to
check for compatibility and security
issues and if no major issues are
encountered during the pilot run then
Linux systems will roll out more widely
potentially serving as the catalyst for
more governments to adopt Linux whether
South Korea switches to Linux in the end
or not it's nice that Linux is being
viewed as a viable practical choice by
those in charge I'd have to agree with
that ah yeah mm-hmm absolutely
way to go South Korea you rock that's
kind of the trend that we're in though
right like if you are on Windows 7 and
your networks and you have to upgrade or
pay for support after January why not be
looking at it boom - sure why not be
looking at some flavor of Linux that is
a rolling release there's nothing with
Linux there's no none of this Windows 7
Windows 10 and you know whatever's next
and having to buy and upgrade every
computer know you can you can roll out
roll
upgrades when a new version comes out
you roll to the next version right and
it continues to be free so your
reallocating those funds from licensing
to labor essentially so you're giving
jobs to your people and and and funding
families and people within your
community and and at the same time
licensing licensing you're using the
license of free software that's been
taste fantastic you will not be the last
you may be the first but you will not
not even the first it's big I mean
that's a big number and and so I I'm not
sure what number of computers that
represents but it's gotta be huge more
than five at least five at least five at
least five yeah and it has we talk about
antivirus and things like that and so
then it's like okay well how does that
impact the bottom line of antivirus now
yeah malware right
and then we've got to start looking at
okay so even if you're on linux you
still need to have some kind of
proactive protection so that if there
are rogue things occurring within your
network that you are aware of those so
it shifts your shifting from antivirus
because viruses are not an issue -
simple and simple remediation of or even
being able to monitor assets in such a
way that you can track malicious traffic
mm-hmm I wonder is a notification a
notification subsystem so a different
thing altogether but South Korea just
like call Baltimore now right now cuz
their phones are working but laughs hey
guys we've got this great idea yeah a
switch to Linux if this works out you
might want to give it a try Oh funny if
a boon to gets the contract maybe
canonical can make that call
that's right Google admitted Tuesday
it's paid for G suite of cloudy apps
aimed at businesses stored some user
passwords in encrypted plaintext hashing
is a standard industry practice that
protects credentials by scrambling them
using a one-way encryption algorithm
administrators of accounts affected by
the security blunder were warned via
email that in certain circumstances
passwords had not been hashed Google was
at pains to stress it was the enterprise
non-consumer version of G suite affected
that there were no signs of misuse of
the passwords and that the passwords
were encrypted at rest on the disk
though because they were not hash to
their sensitive contact was not fully
secured Suzanne Suzanne Frey Google VP
of engineering and cloud trust explains
of the administrators ability to change
user passwords quote we made an error
when implementing this functionality
back in 2005 the admittance ole stored a
copy of the unhatched password this
practice did not live up to our
standards to be clear these passwords
remained in our secure encrypted
infrastructure this issue has been fixed
and we have seen no evidence of improper
access or misuse of the effected
passwords further she went on to advise
of a second flaw this one in the user
login system saying we discovered that
starting in January 2019 we had
inadvertently stored a subset of
unhatched passwords in our secure
encrypted infrastructure these passwords
were stored for a maximum of 14 days
this issue has been fixed and again we
have seen no evidence of improper access
to or misuse of the effected passwords
we will continue with our security
audits to ensure that this is an
isolated incident end quote
Google has already begun changing
passwords for affected accounts that
have not already done so
well I mean that's a good news story
that it wasn't used maliciously I can't
that we know right but I can't help but
wonder how did it go on since 2005 and
not get noticed because they're being
very transparent about it and so there
are you know there's a couple of
different facets to this story and that
okay well who did have access to it and
were there any exploits of would have
allowed a malicious party to access that
data of course internal staff could have
accessed that data but there's no
evidence to say that they did right so
it's an internal infrastructure so it's
like they it they're there and they're
like locked away on the disk like not to
be accessed from the outside world they
are somewhat encrypted they're encrypted
but they're not hashed so they're like
firsts loved loved they were like
password with password one two three
kind of thing there's a password there
it's just you know well let's let's to
summarize what this means as far as
security goes so an encrypted block can
theoretically be D encrypted dirt right
unencrypted so that data can be
recovered and RN reversed okay a hashed
block or of information typically if
it's done correctly is done in such a
way that it it's one direction though
encrypted yeah but if it's properly done
like a hash if it's just a hash then
it's it's a it's not reversible okay so
how does that make sense so what use is
it if you can't reverse it so if if you
say to me okay my password is password 1
2 3 right and I say okay here's my
hashing algorithm and that is now hashed
as this ok and it's this bunch of
gibberish okay so I can never take that
hashed information and turn it back into
password 1 2 3 however because I know
the hashing algorithm if you ever come
to me with the password and
say my password is password 1 2 3 I can
then hash that and say ok let's compare
that to the hash does it match yes it
matches I'll allow you access so even
though I don't know your password I
don't know what the hash is the the
decrypted hash I do know that if you
enter your password again I can hash
again using the same algorithm and will
result in the same result this is the
moment where I get it yeah versus a grip
which is taking password one two three
and just obfuscating it and encrypting
it which can then be unencrypted back
into password one two three god it's a
different a different direction of the
protection right so hashing is much more
secure okay
significantly Google has said this right
like when you know better you do better
like they've said okay sure they know
yeah they know better yes I'm some
intern got let go over this I'm I'm sure
yeah they were around in 2005 it was
probably me alright well we've got to
jump into our cryptocurrency market just
to see where things lie and things are
not looking quite as nice as they were
last week I mean if you took my advice
which did not give but if you bought
Bitcoin last week of course it was high
and it's gone down about $430 us it is
now sitting at seven thousand seven
hundred and eleven dollars and
sixty-five cents litecoin is down to
eighty eight fifty for u.s. dollar
equivalent
aetherium is the one coin that we track
that has gone up just a little ways by
four dollars and 23 cents US and is
currently sitting at two hundred and
forty-five dollars and seventeen cents
Manero is at eighty four nineteen also
losing about eight bucks and torque AKA
stellite or PKA stellite is down at one
point five four ten thousandth of a cent
and your turtle coin Jeff I'm sorry is
only a one point two six ten thousandth
of a cent right
so those three turtle coin you have I
have save every yeah do you well done
sir
I actually lost out yeah that's a good
place to be in when it comes to
cryptocurrency big thanks to Roy W Nash
in our community of viewers for
submitting stories test this week thanks
for watching the category-five dot TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with
ass white Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson ya
I'm Jeff Weston thanks for joining us
this week we will be right back
stick around whether you shop on
thinkgeek gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category-five TV
slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching well this is
category 5 technology TV it's been
episode number 609 and fantastic to have
you here with us again this week just
quick reiteration thank you to everybody
who has been supporting category 5 TV
we're very very excited to be almost
ready to rebuild our broadcast system
and when we do that yeah I'm looking at
being able to update our broadcast to
higher resolution and currently querying
our patrons and you at home what would
that mean to you do you have a 4k TV
that it would be beneficial for you to
have two and a half K of category-five
technology TV I mean those are
possibilities because simply replacing
our broadcast system with something more
current is going to bring us to that
point where
we now have the capability to go up to
4k so you know what do we want to do
with that I mean it's just an adverse
effect of the the replacement which is
therefore an upgrade so thank you to
everybody who's been supporting us in
that venture it is a requirement for us
here at the studio because our current
broadcast server is is on its way out
it's beyond its last legs and I'm very
very pleased and excited to know that
we're soon gonna be rid of that old
beast I love her but she's done yeah
yeah at the end of the day it comes down
to editing on it is a brutal nightmare
yeah it is yes and also thanks to our
patrons who go to patreon.com/scishow
alway to support us because you give as
little as a buck a month and that's
that's going into our monthly bills rent
insurance internet all those kinds of
things and just helps us to keep on top
of things so that when things come up
that we need to replace we're more
readily able to to cover those and
knowing that our bills are paid each and
every month and so thank you to those
who are taking us on as as a patron
we're on Twitter
join us at category 5 TV you can also
follow me personally at Robbie Ferguson
and I do follow back and as we mentioned
on this week's show we also now have a
Twitter account dedicated to the Orville
fan community and it is called at Union
underscore point and I hope to see you
there and incidentally I follow back on
that one as well
we're on YouTube act as category 5 TV
and you can search for us there or if
you prefer to watch edited down snippets
of category 5 TV you can go to Linux
tech show com we're on every platform
that you can possibly desire to watch a
podcast on and if you don't see us on
your favorite profile or platform just
let us know and we will reach out to
those in power and tell them to add us
and they will make it happen
I promise you that yeah every everywhere
everything comes together on our website
category five dot TV so if you don't
feel like googling for us and trying to
track us down on your platform just head
on over to our website and everything's
there it's been fun having you here
thanks for joining us this week
everybody and take care see
