covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias Samsung users unplug your
Ethernet millions of Samsung blu-ray and
DVD players are being bricked all around
the world
Entertainment has become one of the
biggest tools for keeping sane during
these trying times but while many
companies are aggressively pushing their
streaming services others still prefer
owning the media they buy in physical
form that mostly means DVDs and blu-ray
discs which of course require
appropriate devices to play them but
what if those devices all suddenly
stopped working for no apparent reason
that's the rather eerie and frustrating
situation that owners of Samsung blu-ray
players are now experiencing
experiencing around the world with no
answer or solution yet insight there
doesn't seem to be any common
denominator other than the fact that
it's happening across a number of
Samsung's Wi-Fi or Ethernet connected
blu-ray and DVD players it doesn't
appear to matter which model the most
common behavior reported is that the
players reboot themselves after a few
seconds causing an inescapable boot loop
others have reported hearing noises as
if the players were reading empty disc
slots given the mysterious and sudden
appearance of the bug some people have
different theories on what caused it
some blame an overnight firmware update
but the range of devices covered is so
wide and random that it seems less
likely some believe it may be an expired
ssl security certificate in the firmware
which could explain why no amount of
resetting the device to factory settings
seems to work unfortunately Samsung
remains unresponsive despite the growing
number of complaints possibly due to how
it happened during the weekend given
global conditions it's understandable
how owners are not so amused
especially if it will require them to
turn in the device for manual servicing
