[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku kodi
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category-five TV
welcome to the show everybody this is
episode number 636 of category-five
technology TV it's so great to have you
here and before we jump into the show I
want to remind you to subscribe to us on
YouTube and click that Bell to receive
the notifications every time we post a
new and shiny video or when we're live
as a matter of fact you'll get a
notification let's see No
so you don't miss out Geoff Sasha last
week we talked about USB 3.0 versus USB
3.1 Rev - yes and it's in the context of
hey we want to go with an external unit
that is going to be future ready that is
going to be able to give us external
storage on a Odroid Xu floor so this is
a single board computer that fits in my
pocket and yet has USB 3.0 with with the
extensions for 4 USB Attached Guzzi so
the problem with going with USB 3.1 as
we kind of talked about was that the
current iteration of the single board
computer only supports USB 3.0 with you
ASP so do we jump right into the future
ready version that's 3.1 that has 10
gigabits per second but we can't
actually utilize all 10 we can only go
to five gigabits per second but
the the xu4 only supports up to five
gigabits per second on USB 3.0 and the
votes have come in so we had the
discussion last week and we don't have
to really have that discussion again the
votes have come in the the comments have
come in and I greatly appreciate each
and every one of you who took the time
to to give us your feedback and we're
sorry go ahead Sasha I asked was it a
unanimous answer by chance it wasn't
unanimous but it was really skewed
toward USB 3.1 rf2 future-ready
yes exactly and and so you know I look
at it from the perspective of well
future ready means yes I could get up to
ten gigabits per second in data transfer
in the future when 3.1 rf2 is available
on s pcs but right now one I can't get
that on next you four but even if I had
a single board computer that can support
it here's the catch Jaffe's Asha
community I'm still limited to Gigabit
Ethernet yep think about that for a
second so I have my pseudo Nass that
I've built that I've created that Ivan
invented and and created myself based on
just a couple of Cheaper components so
it's a lot cheaper than going out and
grabbing like a Drobo or something like
that or a big server that has eight
drive bays and I can put all of those in
there but you're still limited to the
Gigabit Ethernet so when it comes down
to it five gigabits per second data
right transfer speeds or ten gigabits
per second it really doesn't matter
because I'm still writing to it over
Samba over a Gigabit Ethernet connection
so I'm limited to one so one fifth of
the lowest speed available to us however
the the the feedback from our community
really was
forget about eSATA jump right to USB 3.1
Rev to
that's really what it came down to
mm-hmm any any feedback from you two
like Jeff do you have any thoughts about
that like is that no I mean that was the
whole point of the discussion that we
had last week if he my thought was to go
with a 3.0 because of the eSATA but I
mean being future-ready is never a bad
thing and I mean with the advancement of
single board computers so quickly
evolving I mean who knows you could have
that unit for two years and suddenly two
years from now you're a single bar
computer could be doing what you need it
to do it might happen yeah but I mean it
is the fact that you know your your
Gigabit Ethernet is still stuck at where
it is yes it does make me wonder if
there's a way to look at another option
for that yeah like I don't know I mean
I'm trying to think it's it's such a
it's even see how this has become like a
really tough question because like even
if you go with five or ten gigabits per
second you're still limited to one
gigabit per second so can I just
interject where is this going to make a
difference does that sound like a good
idea yes yeah okay so where this is
going to make a difference let's say we
install plex media server on our xu4 all
right so we've got h.265 video that is
traveling at more than a gigabit per
second like just to throw something
crazy out there
if it's able to re transcode and stream
the video to my gigabit ethernet so that
my other computers and my tablets and
phones on the network are able to stream
my video over plex media server
transcoded then it becomes beneficial
right because the external storage is
able to access at a faster speed than
the ethernet so it's really hard to
explain but does that make sense so the
external storage contains videos that
are too high of quality to stream
directly to my phone over Wi-Fi
let's say Wi-Fi is even slower than
gigabit right so with that device
connected directly to the external
storage I'm able to then Transco down
using plex media server to a streamable
format that is much much faster for my
mobile mobile device so now I've got an
advantage of that very very quick
connectivity to the external device and
it can transcode down and stream over my
Wi-Fi right that's crazy so all of a
sudden it becomes a benefit it's not
gonna really benefit me as far as my
local backups go right because those are
still gigabit limited right no I mean I
had asked is there another option you
could use at home for speeding up and I
saw it in the chat room from no man 5
and he's saying is there a way to go
with like fiber at home it's like wow
would that speed thing yes because I
have unlimited funds so yeah it's gonna
go with fiber and any other yeah that's
that's that would be that would be a lot
faster for sure right it'd be ideal is
there any other options out there for
the home user that's you know they're
sitting there going ok well I
right now all I have is network cables
running through my house we look at the
gigabit but is there another option that
is you know general consumer grade that
would speed things up well Jeff I think
it's it's really just looking at the
paradigm and saying is gigabit enough
and enough for what I'm doing and the
answer is probably yes I think what it
boils down to Jeff is that transcoding
feature right if I had an ass drive just
a traditional Nass unit on my network
that I was trying to grab video from and
the video was traveling it faster let's
say it was it was a higher bitrate than
my network could handle I don't know
that that would really occur but it's a
it's a good theoretical situation right
but let's just say that you were
streaming video that was a higher bit
rate than your NASA
Network could like your networking could
handle then you would have buffering
then you would have streaming issues and
things like that so instead we take the
approach of the external storage being
connected to a device that can transcode
so thinking in the terms of media
it's then able to stream and you know
this Jeff because you've streamed your
plex media server over the Internet
yep so you've been able to watch it from
anywhere in the world
yep through your device because your
plex media server which is running on a
Raspberry Pi is transcoding the video to
a lower bitrate format than the actual
source video does that make sense you
know what I mean yeah so if you were
streaming just the source video you're
getting like the maximum bitrate from
that video but if you're transcoding
which is to basically compress it on the
fly in real time you're able to get a
much lower bitrate Oh a much lower
bandwidth consumption from that video so
hopefully similar quality but a lot less
bandwidth as far as the usage goes like
through the network so you're gonna make
a big difference there so very
interesting I mean the funny thing about
all this is we had this discussion last
week about what option to go with but at
the end of the day but it really isn't
going to have much of a benefit for your
normal everyday use it's pretty specific
purposes where you're gonna find that
slow down yeah I mean for the average
home user like say they're using it for
multiple redundancy backups or whatever
they're not going to notice that
difference between a 3.0 3.1 because of
the transfer rate anyway yeah so you
know it's it's kind of one of those
things like chicken before the egg but
at the same time you know it's just it's
more power looking at that like the
future ready aspect of it Jeff 3.1 rev 2
will give me up to 10 gigabits per
second versus 3.0 will give me five
gigabits per second so immediately I
have the ability by simply upgrading
from the xu4 to the next-gen USB 3.1
Raph to compatible
PC to be able to double my bandwidth to
the external storage so it can make a
huge difference as far as the capacity
goes so that's what our community has
opted for a couple of folks did make
good points that hey you know what you
you're not gonna see a big increase in
speed so why not go with the one that
has eSATA and oh that's I I hate to
throw away eSATA because that's what I
have you know I have an eSATA port on
all my systems because that's you know
the fastest up until now six gigabits
per second by simply plugging in an
external SATA port cable so that's been
brilliant but truth is USB 3.1 R f2 is
is changing things USB C is pushing us
to a faster standard and so we do have
the the device has arrived so what we're
gonna be looking at now this is what
this is what the community opted for
without actually looking at the device
itself so we've got a USB 3.1 generation
2 type C data transfer to the device so
this is going to give us up to 10
gigabits per second when we have that
capability the xu4 only has 3.0 with you
ASP so I'm only going to get half of the
speed five gigabits per second however
this is future-ready
and it's gonna take up to four disks as
well SATA disks it says HDD it'll take
us SSDs as well if I wanted to put those
in there and what's gonna be really
interesting about this project which
we're gonna be addressing in the new
year is the fact that we're gonna be
developing software to be able to
connect that to an xu4 which is a no
droid single board computer something
again fits in your pocket it's the size
of a Raspberry Pi microcomputer and
you're gonna be able to connect that to
it what's really neat about this device
is it is not a raid device you're gonna
learn all about it when we do the actual
review but because it's not a raid
device it connects to whatever you plug
it into
for external hard drives so with the
four drives that I put in there the
computer that I plug it into is just
gonna see it as four external hard
drives so then it's where do we take it
from there
do we set up a raid five do we set up a
raid six do we set it up as a ZFS like a
Z raid 2 or something like that there
are so many options that we can that we
can take and then we're gonna be looking
at how to set that up as an ass unit as
a backup unit as something that can be
backed up to that we'll have some form
of redundancy using Linux technology in
order to keep it safe from things like
ransomware and other threats that are
out there for small businesses and and
for home users too I mean if you've got
your home backup what good is it if
ransomware hits one of your computers
because the kids open an email and you
then lose all the files on your network
right yep that's a big problem so we're
gonna be looking at how we can address
that issue with this unit as well so
we've got a lot of exciting stuff coming
up that's all gonna come from that yeah
I feel like every time we talk about
something new it's like oh that's
exciting I can't wait for that
everything we do just seems to get
bigger and better and I love it yeah
keeps me coming back every week Oh
fantastic and speaking of coming back
stick around we're gonna be right back
when we come back we're gonna be looking
at the Amazon fire tablet and really the
question comes out hey when these things
are so unbelievably cheap can they
really be as good as an Android tablet
we're gonna answer that for you in just
a couple of moments time stick around
welcome back to category five technology
TV we are talking about fires what not
really and we're talking about the
Amazon fire tablet right and before the
break Robby asks the question is it as
good as an Android tablet for such a low
price point I want to even know if it's
as good as my Amazon fire stick which I
love - what is your pre review suspicion
is it as good as an Android tablet
I suspect Amazon I suspect I'm going to
love it okay you think so I think so yes
I thought the size that it's going to be
excellent quality for its cost I I think
I have to agree with you simply because
it is an Amazon product but I have a
bias against the Fire tablet to begin
with what's that about yeah because of
e-books
that's the Kindle but still it's the
same deal when it comes to reading books
as a not because I looked at Rue I
looked at one for a prime day and heard
a prime day Black Friday and when it
came to reading ebooks it would only do
the Kindle ones well what are you
looking for Kobo you're trying to get
Kobo on yeah I have a coal because I
have a bunch of e-books that I've
downloaded from other sources
nah so and yeah I can't upload those so
for that reason I'm instantly like I
kind of just want to be entertained
[Laughter]
that's how she throws - Robbie well the
fact is okay fact is I mean we all have
a phone in our pocket a smartphone and
sometimes they are cumbersome and and we
don't always have to move we don't want
to pull out our phone to be able to do
things like like you're saying reading
your ebooks right what's a what's a
tablet good for these days surfing the
web it's a bigger screen than your phone
I mean this is obviously much bigger
than a phone and this is
you know this is just the the smallest
version of the the new Kindle not the
Kindle the Amazon fire you've got me
thinking Kindle now I know I so you
asked the question what's it good for I
think a lot of people are using it as a
laptop replacement you think so you see
so many now with Bluetooth keyboards and
I think on Jeff show me what you what
you're actually using with your phone
right now
so which is my phone I have a Bluetooth
keyboard from Logitech yeah and it's
just bluetooth and so I could use my
phone if I had a table I don't like the
replacement for the laptop isn't it yeah
yep pretty much yeah I think that's why
a lot of people use a tablet they don't
have to worry about a laptop well and
for social media like if you're going on
Facebook Twitter and stuff like that
having something like this is really
really nice okay so a couple of quick
first impressions of the fire seven from
Amazon I have to say I mean my wife is
plant-based and and cares about you know
the animal products and things the case
that you buy with it is felt it's fabric
it's not leather a lot of stuff isn't it
funny that like that that's actually
like a consideration these days yes it's
not I love it it's not funny to me at
all cuz that's how I roll well I say
that like it's like that times have
changed right like the design of that I
have to say it looks like it's creased
in a way that it would it would work as
a prop it's a stand yeah but but as far
as the fabric goes I mean it is I say
it's funny but really it's like it's an
actual consideration that there's no
like it's not made of leather and when
you start actually looking at that and
realizing like when I'm shopping
Christmas gifts guys for my wife who is
not interested in leather it's it's
really surprising to find that like
every phone case has made of leather
it's ridiculous and so finding that this
is like a fabric is like a cotton fabric
is nice and yes you're right Sasha this
acts as a stand so it stands up the the
tablet like that or also stands it up
this way so how does it operate I mean
really what it boils down to is these
are twenty to thirty percent cheaper
than traditional Android tab
what's I got the seven-inch version here
there's also an 8 inch and a 10 inch
version and you know how do they look
how do they perform what is the caveat
to purchasing an Amazon fire tablet and
I always thought wouldn't it be that
it's all branded Amazon it's all a
hundred percent Amazon and I'm not going
to be able to install any of my apps
right does isn't that like the biggest
concern that we kind of have to address
today right but doesn't it have an
Android operating system on it it does
however it's called fire OS it's been
rounded it's been stripped down a lot of
the features have been removed there is
no Google Play Store there is instead
the Amazon App Store and the Amazon App
Store is vast and it may be absolutely
sufficient for you but if you're an
Amazon user and are pardon me not an
Amazon user but a Google Android user
you might want to look for things like
Chrome like you want your browser right
so let's do a quick search here for
Chrome within the the Amazon App Store
and I get a search engine
I get like I'm not getting the Chrome
browser right it's not available to me
another one that is a big caveat for me
is like YouTube so let's do a search for
YouTube and when I do a search I get
video for youtube I get like I'm getting
search results but not apps right but I
mean there aren't any apps like the
proper app for YouTube is not available
right but that's because of the war
between Google and Amazon I mean when is
it a war yeah as far as applications I
mean even between like the Google home
and the Amazon echo devices yeah you
can't access like google music or
anything like that
sure okay fair enough fair enough so I
mean Amazon has has separated that
entirely there's this wall that goes
it's Google not having it which is a big
concern to sure have
into Google yes yeah and so I say that I
want to give you that caveat in that
this is my concern with purchasing and
an Amazon fire tablet this is what I
feel like I'm gonna be limited to I'm
not gonna be able to have access to
YouTube and Chrome and things like that
and then you realize so I want to show
you this folks because I want you to
know that you can save 20 to 30 percent
by purchasing one of these because what
I've actually done is I've installed
Google Play oh yes
apk as an apk so so what I've done is
I've activated third-party apk
installers and I've simply downloaded
the four apk files it's very quick and
information a cat5 dot TV slash fire is
going to show you how to do that
but now I've got Google crumby Google
Play installed so then I installed
through that Google Chrome right so I've
got Chrome properly installed and I've
got the actual official YouTube app as
well
so all of those things are available
through that third-party installation if
you activate oh look we're live Trippi
whoa that's actually me right now whoa
that's funny
whoa stream today yeah oh yeah I mean
even even from loading it and streaming
it that's only a few seconds behind and
that's just the YouTube app no no I get
that but the point is like it loaded
quickly there and it was instant play
there wasn't a lot of buffering so that
tells you from a hardware standpoint
that it can keep up fairly well oh yeah
specifications wise Jeff I mean it's a
quad-core processor and it's got a gig
of ram and and and now a couple of
things I mean of course you're you're
always limited to the storage capacity
of these types of devices but this one
does have an SD I better I better
turn off my screen first if I pull it
out of the case you can see that it does
have a microSD port so you can stick a
microSD card in there up to 512
gigabytes so that's gonna give you a ton
of storage right for your apps or
pictures it does have a forward facing
and rear facing camera you can see all
the specs at cat5 dot TV slash fire and
that's going to show you like some
information about the specifications now
the 7-inch has got a mono speaker the
eighth inch has got stereo speakers and
Dolby sound it's going to have better
sound presumably and the ten inch of
course is like miles above but
realistically I mean when it comes down
to the price these things like the the
one caveat that I had the one concern
that I had was being limited to Amazon
software but then realizing that you
know what I can install the Google Play
Store through an apk right and then I
can install anything that is available
in Google Play everything it has
completely untied my hands as far as
this tablet goes so now I'm able to
purchase a tablet for twenty thirty
percent less than the equivalent
specification price like if I was to buy
just an Android tablet and it's pretty
good it's it's pretty decent I'm I got
to say I'm pretty impressed of course
it's got bluetooth so I connect it to my
Bluetooth speakers that gives me better
sound because the sound and the 7-inch
is pretty yeah you know it's a little
speaker down here right as you would
expect and as silly as it is so this is
the case that you buy separately even
though it's a great case it covers the
speaker so so if I was listening to a
podcast you can't close the lid and I
closed the because typically I would
listen to my podcast like that well this
there there isn't an opening for the
speaker which i think is stupid that's
the one the one flaw I found so far
no it's just that can it's such a simple
thing all right can you swap the tablet
around within the case because it seems
fairly no like it's good but it buttons
on the side are they on the top no
they're on the top but that's not gonna
make a difference Jeff because at least
there's an opening here when the case is
Club is open on this side there's not oh
right because that's actually in the
case yeah it's in the case itself so
it's just one of those like they didn't
think that through that's the one thing
they didn't think through but that's the
case that is sold separately so this is
a twenty dollar case which as you say
sasha is is pretty cool because it does
work as a stand so you can watch your
shows like that and it stands it up and
you can watch your shows like that or
surf the web or whatever you want to do
and it works very very well and it's
magnetic as well it clasps like it it
kind of clips on and doesn't open up
right it's it's pretty nice I really do
like the case I just don't like the fact
that when you close the case you lose
the speaker right
that's the only thing okay no we have a
question in the chat room I mean you've
talked about adding apps through apks
what about uninstalling and removing the
onboard apps that it comes with is there
that ability or you stuck with what
amazon has put on there oh yeah good
question okay so let's say I mean I
don't know like there's not I'll say
this there's not a lot of cruft and by
cruft I mean like excess stuff that you
just don't need like it's really really
nice to be able to pull up like there is
like books with Kindle
there's Amazon music right like you've
got all this you've got access to all
this stuff and it's gonna log into my
Amazon account presumably Amazon music
prime it's got Prime it's got prime
video everything else so do you really
want to remove that stuff I don't know
but can you let's try so let's grab
books and there is an uninstall button
up here which is disabled oh so you
cannot uninstall it right okay which is
pretty typical of any tablet the like
what branding right
disable even if you can't oh sure
uninstall it so I mean it's interesting
that they won't even let you like
there's not even a disable popping up oh
well the thing is Jeff that you could
install a new dashboard for example and
be able to control the icons that you
see right so as far as disabling goes
it's really just about shortcuts right
but these are just the basic as I say so
don't let that be something that makes
it go you know like oh it has the silk
browser well you can install Chrome and
then you can set Chrome as the one that
is the icon that is you know like I can
put the Chrome browser right there and
take silk and get it out of there right
and so now chrome as far as my screen
goes is the is the browser that I see
right so and again you can you could
because I now have Google Play I could
install other environments as far as the
the dashboard goes so I can make it look
a little bit more to my liking as well
get rid of some of the stuff that I
don't need I can tell you at home that
the one thing we use our tablet for is
just video chatting with like Dave's
family
you're on Finland and this would work
perfectly for that right like it's the
right size and yep yeah I think so yeah
sure it's the sort of thing I'd like for
Christmas I don't know what all you have
explored with this device as far as the
software goes I mean maybe this is a new
device for you but what about things
like the virus virus protection and I
mean I know what the it's Android yeah
no no I understand that but now that
you've got Google on there you can
install you know your ESET or something
like that now with what it comes as a
base software because it's kind of been
cleaned out Android is it still safe or
is there some holes in there now because
of the Amazon proprietary stuff no no
nothing like that Jeff oh yeah yeah and
and as as you say so like ESET so and
now and I just as you were talking I was
like oh well how does the forward facing
camera look and it looks like you're
really
okay so let's let's bring up the apps
sorry I'm gonna say Google Play right
yeah and there we go I'm getting lost
here there so it's down at the bottom
now that I've installed it I can move it
up and let's do a search for ESET
because like now I've got Google Play
installed right so why would I have any
trouble installing my ESET mobile
security no you should I just didn't
know from from an actual software
standpoint if there was you know some
bells and whistles in the removal
process that probably needed from a
security standpoint like I don't I know
like with because I my phone runs
Android and I'm constantly getting the
updates another su-kyong security patch
and I don't know how on top of the
updates and security patches this well
because it's an it's not quite Android
fire OS yeah I hear ya and so a part of
it is saying yeah I trust Amazon is
going to keep things up to date and and
I think that it comes down to I can buy
a tablet like an Android tablet from
some Chinese manufactured like company
that does not support their stuff right
and and I've been there where like the
some of the set-top boxes that I bought
that are Android based become obsolete a
year later and you cannot update them
because they're not supported by the
manufacturer right this is Amazon like
they're going to support it it's going
to be supported so you know that even if
it's not stock Amazon stock Android it's
going to have support in the fire OS as
well now I suppose it would be
compatible like I have a fire stick at
home yeah and then if I had the tablet I
can start watching the show on my fire
stick yep and continue watching it on
the tablet that's right and you can
actually take what's called so if you
bring up say Prime video for example
Sasha yeah you can use what's called
second screen in order to cast it's
basically like mirror casting to your
Amazon fire stick that said there is a
lack of miracast capabilities within
this device so if you're looking to be
able to cast
um how would you say so if you're
watching video it's going you're gonna
be able to cast it sure but if you want
to cast the whole screen like here
tonight for example here live on
category 5 TV I'm having to hold it up
to a camera right right I'm not able to
cast this to your screen because it does
not support miracast that's kind of a
difference that you would say that there
is between a true Android tablet versus
this one but is that going to affect the
average user probably not I think that's
only going to affect the broadcaster
because you can bring up prime video you
can bring up YouTube once you've got it
installed and you can cast that to your
ear display if you've got a smart TV
here I've got a chromecast or something
like that it's like practically perfect
in every way
well theoretically nothing yeah you had
this device because I have a question
about targeted advertising but I don't
know how long you've had it I haven't
had it long but I have a feeling I know
where you're going where do you think
well I know that there is ads like as
it's an Amazon device right so right you
do sometimes get some ads and if you
long press on the ad you can actually
disable them so just keep that in mind
right and so I'm not necessarily the ads
but what I'm thinking is because we now
live in you know a world where there's
more and more connected Amazon devices
yeah I mean for years we've been dealing
with the whole you know Google tracking
so to speak where you know you google
something and suddenly it's popping up
on ads or sugar I was just talking about
what does the same thing happen with
this because it's an Amazon device is it
reading all the stuff that you're doing
and said no while getting targeted oh
gosh Jeff this is a legit question for
people who are concerned about that
privacy in the and targeted advertising
right because it's an Amazon device I
just didn't know if there's some extra
targeting that you've noticed like maybe
these things so we're shipping these
things to your house immediately right
no more than you're already used to
write like this is the world that we
live in so yes if you are searching
through Amazon it's going to track kind
of what you're looking at and then
gonna provide advertising for it right
because there is shopping and stuff like
that
of course okay but it's no it's no
different than what we're already used
to and and I should say one of the
things because some people are like hey
well what what difference is there as
far as the it does have a lack Allah
play some music
ever ladies device is going off yeah I'm
sorry okay so whatever I don't want it
okay that's fine elec what's the weather
forecast
so like things like that to be able to
just talk to my tablet it's kind of cool
yes I don't know if I talk too much
maybe she was still listening
like what's the weather forecast
I like that it shows me it's a little
more interesting than just asking like
just bringing up an app or something
like that and it's a lot it's quite
helpful as well and I've actually used
it to like you can brighten the screen
you can turn up the volume you can do
things like that like general Android
controls you can do by voice now thanks
to the Amazon echo integration with the
tablet as well which it takes it to the
next level for me makes it easier for
for kids to use or people with visual
issues right right oh yeah
but also being that I already have some
Amazon echo devices in my house I can
immediately start telling it to turn on
my Christmas tree or try turn off the
lights in the living room er you can
broadcast to the family through that I
can yeah or do things like okay I like
volume 8 I just want to turn it up for
you guys
Alexa what's the temperature inside
likes it hot folks but I gotta pay the
bills so elect set the temperature to 73
such a 73 right like so I'm doing that
from my tablet from the studio on the
other side of town and it that's just
one feature but and then from the
Android perspective yes because I can
install Play Store I feel like this is
actually a valuable device and I've
saved 30 percent in order to buy it so
is that the official assessment that
you've got that it it does perform as
well as any of the other Android tablets
and it's worth it for the money
is it worth it for the money absolutely
yes okay and specifications wise it has
some great specs check it out cat 5 TV
slash fire and you're gonna learn all
about that but yeah specifications wise
they're fantastic for the price it would
for sure get here by Christmas if Dave
were to like order it yeah Dave yeah oh
no every single Dave who's watching just
sent you one of those no not a lot a lot
all right so are you ready to head over
to the newsroom where you guys is all
set over there sure all right here's
what's coming up in the category 5 TV
newsroom governments in the UK US and
Australia have asked Facebook in an open
letter to roll back plans to bring
end-to-end encryption to all of its
platforms Google is showing off stunning
new augmented reality features coming to
web and mobile apps soon after analyzing
a database containing three billion
leaked credentials from security
breaches the Microsoft threat research
team determined that more than 44
million user accounts had a serious
security problem we'll tell you what you
need to know and Intel is making lidar
affordable with a new palm-sized
camera thick around the full details are
coming up later in the show
this is the category 5.2 B news we're
covering the week's top textures with a
slight linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman
joined this week by jeff weston and
robbie ferguson all right here's some
quick honorable mentions this week Larry
Page and Sergey Brin cofounders of
Google have stepped down from their
positions as its CEO and president
respectively with immediate effect at
its parent company of alphabet Inc
however both will continue their
involvement as co-founders shareholders
and members of alphabets Board of
Directors going forward sundar pichai
Google's chief executive will become the
CEO of both Google and alphabet he will
assume the role of managing alphabets
investments in its portfolio of other
bets in areas including self-driving
cars and life sciences besides this he
will also remain a member of alphabets
board of directors directors the
stepping down of page and Brin
represents the end of an era for Google
that was founded by both in 1998 while
there are PhD students at Stanford
University despite not holding important
management roles at alphabet the two
plan to continue talking with pachai
regularly and Mexican cops have
pre-ordered a fleet of cyber trucks
having pre-ordered 15 Tesla cyber trucks
that makes the Mexican city of San Luis
Potosi Potosi the second to share plans
to put police officers and cyber trucks
following Dubai's announcement a couple
weeks back the San Luis Potosi
government is reportedly interested in
replacing its internal combustion engine
vehicles with the truck to cut down on
maintenance costs and save money in long
run Adrianne Esper Cardenas mayor of San
Luis Potosi described the purchase as
quote common sense
end quote he added that the city will
also use some of the 15 trucks for tasks
like picking up trash around the city it
would be simple for the city to reverse
course if it changes its mind because
all it takes to preorder a truck is a
fully refundable $100 deposit that way
if the police force gets cold feet and
it thinks that the trucks are not quite
meatball proof windows
it could still completely black out
before
actually buying Tesla's trucks let's get
into the top stories we're following
this week governments in the UK US and
letter to rollback plans to bring
platforms Facebook who has been the
center of many privacy scandals responds
that everyone has the right to a private
conversation
it's the latest in a battle between
privacy and safety which has been played
out between governments and tech firms
ever since digital communication became
mass market end-to-end encryption is a
secure way of sending information so
that only the intended receiver can read
it the information is encrypted while it
is still in the sender's device and is
only decrypted when it reaches the
person intended nobody not even the
platform owner has the keys to unlock it
the UK and the US have just signed a
historic agreement to give each other
much faster access to private
conversations cutting down the time from
a month's her years to weeks weeks or
days but that agreement could
potentially be rendered a bit useless if
the messages are encrypted setting up a
government backdoor is not the answer
either as Amnesty International pointed
out quote proposals for a backdoor have
repeatedly been shown to be unworkable
there is no middle ground if law
enforcement is allowed to circumvent
encryption then anybody can end quote
professor Alan Woodward a security
expert at the University of Surrey and a
consultant to Europe all Europol gave a
good analogy when he said quote a
backdoor is rather like leaving a key
under the mat once somebody knows it's
there anyone can walk in and quote hmm
so interesting story I really think that
this is gonna sound weird okay so I know
that emails are not private and I assume
that Facebook messages are not private
so I don't think that they should be
they should not be private they're not
they shouldn't be private it's about
encryption and so right I think the the
issue in this case is the fact that when
there is legal proceedings going on and
the police are doing investigations and
a lot of times it could be a national
security issue it could be a you know a
police investigation that is about a
safety or you know like drug runners or
whatever the fact that the police need
to be able to access those devices I
mean we saw this a couple years ago with
Apple and their security needing the
fingerprints and unless you had you know
the person's thumbprint you couldn't get
past that yeah encryption and all that
kind of stuff and so there's always been
this battle on the encryption front of
can law-enforcement get access to it and
what is acceptable and what is not and
so I mean at the beginning there was
this idea of yes for sure we could you
know I think it's makes sense for law
enforcement to have encryption but then
as soon as you get things like you know
the Edward Snowden and all of that kind
of breach that's coming out through that
that scandal you're you have people go
on hold on we can't trust you with that
information we can't trust you to follow
the court process properly where you're
supposed to go to a judge now you're
bypassing that with you know fake
warrants to make it happen I think
that's how it played out if my memory
serves and so now people are going I
don't think we can trust you with the
encryption you know and it's I mean this
story is an interesting point because
you're right
if you do give that access then anybody
has access as long as they can get to
that if they know the key so where's
that bottom line here's where the tricky
thing is in my mind and maybe I'm
oversimplifying it but when I first had
a phone it was on a party line there was
no privacy I don't understand a little
bit different now all the kids listening
tonight
Wow we just dated ourselves is why one
person needs to have another
conversation with another person and
have it completely locked down I feel
like that was never a thing never had
that but you also didn't use your party
line for you know international
terrorism right and if I were to be
using my party line for international
terrorism I'd want it to be encrypted so
I don't think it should yeah no I I
understand yes I mean it really comes
down to though and I hear this argument
all the time if you're not doing
anything wrong why do you care yes and I
get that argument it makes sense if
you're not doing anything why should you
care but the fact is there's still the
potential that you might not be doing
anything wrong but now if somebody
decides you they're going to investigate
you anything that you're doing is no
longer going to be protected but if I
work under the assumption that nothing
is private I'm not gonna do anything in
these weird realms that I would hope to
stay private right but where is that
line and I think that's what this story
comes to is where is the line between
acceptable and I don't want to say
intrusion but that really is what it
comes down to if you're going to break
the encryption it is an element of
intrusion might be for good means but
where is that acceptable line between
intrusion and privacy and you know I
don't know if there's a safe answer
because you're always gonna have two
sides of the story you're gonna have the
the privacy side and you're gonna have
the law enforcement side and then
there's gonna be people in the middle
going and I don't know it's it's
interesting to watch how this is playing
out in the courts and I think where it's
going to really come to head and you're
gonna start seeing movement in a
definitive way is in the European courts
because of all of the legislation that
they putting in place I think that's
where if there's going to be a
breakthrough that allows for that
healthy balance I think Europe is where
you're gonna see it all right
Google is showing off stunning new
augmented reality features coming to web
and mobile apps soon Google has been
quietly working to improve at augmented
reality platform our core since its
official launch early last year now the
company says it's ready to unveil some
of the next-generation upgrades to death
detection and physics that they've
achieved promising to make AR
experiences seem much more realistic in
the near future the upgrades part of our
cours all new all new depth api will
soon allow developers to perform what's
known as occlusion which is when an
artificial object can be blocked from
view by real-world objects in a scene
place a virtual cat in your living room
for instance and you can see it
disappear from view when you angle your
camera in a way that places a bed or a
table or some other object in between
the result is a more believable scene
because the depth detection going on
under the hood means that your
smartphone better understands every
object in a scene and how far apart each
object is from one another Google says
that it's able to do this through
optimizing existing software so that you
won't need to buy a new phone with a
specific sensor or a type of processor
if you have a phone that supports our
core which is pretty much every new
Android phone released in the last few
years you'll be able to access these new
features directly on the device with no
help from the cloud Pokemon go creator
at neon tech showed off a video of
occlusion of an occlusion demo featuring
a tiny virtual Pikachu darting around an
urban plaza dashing in between objects
and blending seamlessly in with the
environment that was in July 2018 but it
was just a video and not a demo running
on a device in real time Google says the
advancements will be made available to
developers in the future after it works
more more closely with developers and
other collaborators to polish off some
of its approaches these go beyond
occlusion and into more realistic
physics and 3d mapping google has
developed a way for AIA
R objects to interact with the real
world more realistically move through
the environment in a way a real world 3d
object would and enter
with services like you might expect
physical matter would the company
doesn't have a timeline for when it does
expect to release this toolset more
broadly but it's likely these
capabilities will be showing up in apps
and a our web experiences sometime next
year this is cool this is cool I I mean
as you're reading the story I'm going
what in the world would I use this for
but I think this can take things like AR
games yeah to a whole new level and I
can also see this being the beginnings
of a whole new way of doing living AR
visual wear right so for instance I mean
if you go back to that episode of Star
Trek next generation I think it was
called the game where they had that
little headset and as they're walking
around there's like these balls and you
know where they're throwing the balls
into these cyclones and all that kind of
stuff I can see this opening up the door
to having you know VR goggles that
instead of having that opaque screen
having a transparent screen so that it
changes the way you do your games so you
would really like this I think this is
really fascinating how they're moving it
forward my fear though is that you know
as humans we can't be trusted somebody's
gonna get hurt okay here's what I like
it for I like for two reasons that
immediately popped into my head one
randomly interior-design
I feel like okay you can easily then
show somebody what their space could
look like well you could do that now
though yeah but it would be easier not
with no occlusion though yeah back-end I
think therapy for people with phobias or
PTSD I think that would work that's an
interesting concept I haven't thought
about that one yeah and also games
that's the way it's gonna go initially
is you know people are gonna go how can
we build this into games yeah
but at the same time I mean that's
interesting about mobility issues this
does open a whole new realm of how does
that play into say urban planning right
and if you develop an AI map and you
look at it going okay you know how would
how would people interact with this what
would be the movement like techniques
it's like Times Square yeah like how you
know if this happened how would that
impact traffic and and watching these AI
people walk around by throwing an object
in there or if you just place the I mean
I realized it's kind of backwards use of
it but it'd be interesting to see from a
traffic model standpoint or a
construction model in fact that this
would have you know could change the way
we do the world we've gotta take a quick
break the cryptic corner and bit more of
this week's top tech stories are coming
up don't go anywhere
welcome back to the crypto corner
another week has flown by not many
changes within the price of the market
cap of our industry still around to Ana
billion market share of Bitcoin is
around 66% so not many changes there but
as usual a lot of things to report about
and so the first big one is if you're
upgraded this weekend to Istanbul which
means a bit more performant cheaper and
a bit more resilient but it's not the
big upgrade to Ethier 2.0 that will come
hopefully beginning of next year the
next one is lipo the light-cone
foundation created a trust fund to
address privacy issues by using the
member wendel protocol which is great
news because that's exactly what we also
need in the Bitcoin protocol an
interesting statistic is decentralized
finance or as they say it in modern
English defy on the field on the theorem
network that was in 1997 around 10
million u.s. dollars last month it was
650 million so an exponential growth in
decentralized finance on live here in
blockchain the 650 million by the way is
equivalent to around 2% of all earth
available in the market so it's
significant then the voice Network which
is in Euros your EOS based media
platform competitor they want to be
compared to Facebook and so on they will
launch the better version soon that's
interesting because block 1 that is the
company behind this system they
generated 4 billion US dollars during
the ico of AOS so they've got a lot of
money that they cancel behind this year
and last but not least in the news
section is British Virgin Islands they
announced that the
converting the us-backed dollar to a
digital currency so that's the next one
that country that will have their
currency on a blockchain now subject of
the week is exchange and why in the
exchange because you can make a lot of
mistakes there if you don't choose the
right exchange and there are four things
that you have to be really careful with
when choosing an exchange first is it a
regulated exchange and to give you an
example there's an exchange called I Dex
I Dax that's based in Mongolia so you
know that if something happens there you
have got no chance in recovering your
money
I assume that hmm and but that you have
to be careful that but every other
exchange that you have got at least a
chance to talks to somebody and that's
usually the case with regulated
exchanges second is is it the KYC ml
exchange so are they asking you for the
passport picture
don't send those things to companies or
exchanges or website you have never
heard of or you don't have any idea who
is sitting behind that exchange there
because you never know what they're
going to do with your passport or your
driver's license what are they going to
do with your data is it safely stored
you don't know that so make sure that
you have you have got an answer to that
question
third is so called fake trading on
what's trading which is forbidden in the
US and in Europe but it's allowed in
Asia and that means that the exchange is
faking trade volume they are saying that
around 90 percent of bitcoins volume
that you see on coin market cap it's
around 1 billion US dollars in reality
it's only around 100 million so make
sure that there's enough liquidity of
your token or coin then last is the fees
just be careful with the fees check that
before you do a trade it can be up to
30% i30 % hi
if you make a mistake so those are the
four points need to consider when
choosing the right exchange for your
token and that's that's for me so I wish
a great week and see you next week
thanks for watching thanks Robert
just a reminder this is not financial
advice we're just sharing what's
happening in the crypto market the
Microsoft threat research team analyzed
billions of login credentials that had
been leaked following security breaches
these came from multiple sources
including law enforcement and publicly
accessible databases considering the
data breaches are known to have exposed
4.1 billion records in the first six
months of 2019 alone there's obviously
plenty of this kind of credential data
floating around and plenty that is
traded across dark web markets security
researchers analyzed this breach data
and by doing so it's possible to get an
idea of the most commonly reused and
therefore insecure passwords the
Microsoft identity threat research team
was also looking for these compromised
credentials to cross-check against the
Microsoft user ecosystem across just the
first three months of 2019 Microsoft
found some 44 million accounts that were
reusing passwords found within those
breached credential databases you might
think that 44 million reuse passwords
out of more than 3 billion breached
credentials isn't too bad a percentage
unless you're one of those as your ad or
Microsoft account holders with the
password problem of course it's it's
dangerous to think that you are safe
just because you don't use any of the
headline passwords mentioned in the most
reused passwords list so that regular
regularly appears online as threat
actors use a variety of techniques to
reveal login credentials if one of your
passwords turns up in a breached
database and you use it to access your
email account for example it's often
game over as far as your security is
concerned
Microsoft warns about how this data is
commonly used in what's known as a
breach replay attack quote once a threat
actor gets a hold of
spilled credentials or credentials in
the wild they can try to execute a
breach replay attack in this attack the
actor tries tries out the same
credentials on different services
service accounts to see if there's a
match end quote
as far as the leaked credentials that
the threat research team found during
this analysis are concerned microsoft
has confirmed that consumers need to
take quote no additional action and
quote as they are already forced the
password reset so what can we do to
protect our accounts the report goes on
to say quote our numbers show that 99.9%
of identity attacks have inserted by
turning on multi-factor authentication
end quote
Wow 99.9% have been thwarted so we know
I am NOT the best with my passwords I
know that you're learning I'm learning
and I know I would never have known how
bad I was if not for the show but now I
know I need multi-factor authentication
I'm going to need it because I know that
even if I think I have the safest
password out there there's a computer
out there that's just picking away and
will one day figure it out well do you
know what's neat about multi-factor
authentication sash's that even if you
have a weak password yeah if you have
MFA or 2fa whatever you want to call it
then you're much more protected because
they only have that one factor they only
have the password well they also need
your phone or your SMS or whatever else
I can remember in some regards
absolutely one site yes that's fine with
me yeah you don't want to repeat
passwords across multiple so I needs it
if you were to repeat password and have
multi-factor authentication you'd be
okay I mean you don't want to but you'd
be okay yeah I mean it is concerning
that people still continue to use the
same password but I would venture to
guess that almost every one of those
people do not have some sort of a
password
keeper software I would say you're wrong
and here's why I know because I am one
of those people so maybe it's just a
password because it's easy to remember
it's poor practice though maybe it's
just bad okay so here's what happens is
I try a password and it says wrong
password or I try password it says your
password is expired you have to come up
with a new password and I just in a rush
put in a password that I know you know
and then I think I'll come back to that
later and I'll change it yeah you never
do I don't I have I have a problem well
admitting it is the first step right
that's words anonymous okay pause pause
I use a password generator which I have
done which has rendered my laptop
useless in this moment no that was you
that was good okay but like I use a
password generator and this is big long
string of characters that I just
copy-paste yeah to things right which is
great what a wonderful world as far as
security goes if none of the users know
their passwords think about that you
think that sounds crazy but that is the
perfect scenario yes if I fire a staff
member and they because they've
compromised data or they've done
something wrong
I don't want them to be able to walk
away with passwords that they remember
promise you I don't know any of my own
personal passwords right now that's
great
ask your password on my password that's
the way it should be yes absolutely now
but then there is the scenario that
you've encountered Sasha where your
Chromebook you have to log into your
Chromebook so you have to know your
chrome password which is your Google
password right so the trick is is to
have a simple enough password that you
remember so I use password recipes not
passwords so you think about a recipe
we've talked about that on the show
before and I'll talk about it again but
knowing your recipe you're able to punch
in your password so my password is like
this big long thing because it's like
it's like all these different factors
for a recipe for my password and so it's
like a hacker could never figure it out
it's all kinds of words and punctuation
z' and everything else but i remember it
because i know the recipe right and then
you and then in addition to that I have
multi-factor authentication enabled on
my Google account so even though I have
a password that I'm entering in because
I remember the recipe so think about
this what if that computer had a key
logger what if I was logging into my
Google account to check my gmail from a
library computer where someone says it
has installed a key logger now they know
my password so now do they have access
to my Google account no they don't have
my phone because I've got multi-factor
authentication enabled so every time I
try to an a log into my Google account
or my Chromebook it pops up on my phone
do you want to authorize this yes it's a
simple click yes absolutely you need to
enable that I want I want that now yes I
will say as far as the key logger thing
goes that I would never fall victim to
that because I don't know my password
and I just copy-paste so they would only
be locking the coffee and but there are
clipboard loggers as well factor
authentication that's for the way I wish
there was a way and I suppose in theory
it could be done but I wish when there
was a data breach for a company that
there would be a way to purge the
passwords and ensure that your password
keeper software would prevent you from
ever using that again like I know with
mine I I get a we're almost there Jeff I
know but I like I know for mine I get
alerts that a runs an audit of all my
passwords because there's one I'm now up
over probably 250 different passwords
and it's like by the way you view you've
reused this a couple times
and when I look at its like oh that's a
sight I haven't logged into in ten years
like clearly yeah I don't yeah use it
but it's the same password that you're
using on something that you use every
day what which is the scary thing yeah
exactly yeah
but it'd be nice if that's the one
that's come out and never allow you to
use it again yeah that comes down to
common sense though I know and what we
are at like with Mikey so my ki for
example with LastPass with have I been
owned as examples Google Chrome now
features it built-in when passwords that
you use have been compromised you
receive alerts that'll that let you know
and in fact I I recently received an
alert that one of my passwords was
compromised I recognized it because it
said this is your password and so oh
yeah my password has been compromised so
what did I do
I did dump of my LastPass password
database and I searched for that
password and I found all of the sites
that I use that I had stupidly shared
the same password with because it was
one of my plaintext passwords right and
I had found about maybe six or seven
sites where I had used this password
from years ago and so I went through and
I went through check check check check
check and I changed the password on
every single one of those sites to a
nice strong password so now whether it
was compromised or not that password is
now secure what I am NOT able to protect
against is the fact that the data that
they were able to accumulate during that
breach they now have access to so that
could be that could be the phone call
that comes in and says hi we're calling
from Microsoft and we're looking at your
computer could be any kind of phishing
scam spear phishing scam whatever it may
be because they now have data on me
however my password is no longer an
issue so they can't get access to my
accounts that actually helps me to know
that you've actually had the same
problem I have everyone does so but the
thing is is that you've got to take
action yeah so where I receive the
notification that my password has been
compromised
I found the six other sites that
use that password because I shared that
password with other sites and I changed
the password right and what you said is
very crucial because in your news story
Sasha you said that they're now using
the compromised data in order to do a
secondary attack yes to see if maybe
that password that you used on myspace
way back in the day might be the same
password that you're now using on
Facebook yeah so they try those things
they attack those things and you would
be none the wiser until finally they get
in and guess what they do they change
your password and then you can't access
your account and so you've got to be
proactive I will say like the the
password generators that pass that
generate these really strong awesome
passwords they're amazing yeah
but I think every single person has
generated their own password that
they're super proud of and they kind of
feel a little bit of attachment to
alright and then you kind of want to use
it but you shouldn't yeah and I think
the the the thing that we hesitate with
is that these big long passwords that
are 64 characters long how will I ever
remember that and the key point is you
don't need to know it you don't need to
remember it you need to have a password
manager that is able to input that into
the login form so that it will get you
into the system and you never need to
know that password exact the key planet
that's it no I know we have to move on
yeah one quick thought with this I mean
I'm thinking about what you're saying
Robbie about the the you replay attacks
where they're checking out other's sites
yeah yeah and the fact that you have to
factor authentication so take for
instance Facebook you can have your
two-factor authentication where as if
they get in they change the password but
they can also now change the cellphone
that you use for your two-factor
authentication so once they're in then
they can now change that cell that
number so that when anything I'm locked
Oh Jeff we're talking about social media
here what about banking
there are the funds gonna go that they
now have access to right right so is
there a way and maybe they're doing this
already but I'm thinking for a
sophisticated web service whether it be
banking or whatever is there a way for
them to put in almost three factor
authentication with some smart trends
for instance they recognize that
normally you log in from an IP address
that's in a specific area of the country
suddenly you log in with your password
from an IP address
totally somewhere else and then they
instantly go to change your phone number
would the site go you're in that's not
you we're locking you out well this is
exactly why we use the term multi-factor
authentication not necessarily
two-factor authentication right so
multi-factor authentication could be
five factors right when I log in if I
want to remote into the studio from home
there are three or four factors I think
so it's multi-factor authentication
anyway so it's not two-factor
authentication
it takes four factors in order for me to
get in to the studio so yeah there's the
but as far as the lock downs go I mean
that's firewalling that's that's a whole
other can of worms yeah it'll be a new
story next week intel is adding a tiny
lidar sensor to its realsense range
claiming the intel realsense lie doc
lidar camera l5 one five is the world's
smallest laser rangefinder not to
mention one of the most affordable
taking technology familiar from
autonomous cars and robotics the l5 1 5
then packages it down into small enough
form factor that it could allow compact
smart devices
to scan the world in 3d lidar works by
using a rapidly scanning laser bouncing
points of light off surrounding objects
by measuring the time taken for that
light to reflect back it can create a 3d
map or a point cloud of the world around
that sensor that accuracy has made it
the centerpiece of many self-driving
project itself driving car projects
among other fields
traditionally though lidar has been
hamstrung by two key factors size and
price early lidar sensors particularly
those with suitable range for automotive
applications have been huge like a
spinning trashcan mounted on top of the
vehicle's roof
they've also cost tens of thousands of
dollars or more intel's ll5 one five
taps into the growing category of
solid-state light are however and it's
cheap enough arriving just at $349 Wow
the chip maker developed its own tiny
micro electromechanical system or MEMS
mirror that allows the laser to skin at
the scene but at reduced power despite
requiring less than 3.5 watts intel says
that the l5 1/5 can still track 3d
objects at a range of up to 30 feet at
over their 23 million accurate depth
pixels per second with a depth
resolution of 1024 by 768 at 30 frames
per second arguably more exciting though
is the potential for new applications
and new users where lidar has
traditionally been out of reach
smoothing that transition is the fact
that the l5 1/5 uses the same realsense
sdk 2.0 as intel's other current
realsense cameras released under an
open-source license and compatible with
Windows Linux Android and Mac OS along
with multiple platforms including unity
unreal and even Python unreal oh man do
you guys remember the first time that we
heard of lidar yes yes a big let the
lost city of the montage right oh the
bunkie gone that's right now monkey
Kingdom yes the plains most distinctive
feature features are two struts or booms
that extend behind the wings once a
cheerful red and white the paint job on
this plane was full of patches and
strips that have peeled off and an ugly
streak of oil ran down the fuselage from
the forward engine
big green lidar box almost filled the
interior of the plane think about the
size of this thing right is very
sophisticated line yeah
I'm not on this sleek advanced yeah this
sleek advanced and costly piece of
technology so top secret that it had to
be guarded by soldiers was being slept
around in a shabby flying tin can or so
it seemed to my in expert eye that's
Douglas Preston from the lost city of
the monkey god he was here on the show
to talk about that my all-time favorite
episode yeah I don't know Jeff season
any it feels like it was just go to our
website category 5 TV click on search
and click on lhasa t of the monkey god
you'll find it which first made us
excited about lidar
i think so absolutely this store
technology brings light our to us right
this was exciting that it existed and
that it was capable and useful in real
world applications but what what I'm
saying is like this is Douglas Preston
went to the city of the monkey god with
a Plane full of lidar technology and now
it's fitting in something that's like 60
millimeters right right what can you use
that for I wonder thought of a our 3d
movies 3d movies either way we have an
interactive in 3d movies 3d movies could
you imagine no why can't an action take
for instance like an Avengers movie but
it's filmed with 3d lidar technology
mm-hmm so not only can even watch it i
but you're sitting there going hold on
Oh check out the other side of that
fight okay that would be cool combine
that with the technology that Android is
praying about that allows things to go
behind other objects right right and now
we've got lidar to show us
those objects in 3d space remember we
had the story with the cane that like
was a smile that could have a
conversation with you about what was
around what if that cane had lighter on
it I mean it would make it that much
more cartoon to what obstacles are in
the way so could this be something I
mean we've gone from mega server that
fills a room to something that fills a
box to something that fits in the pocket
now we've got lidar that fills a plane
that now fills like a 62 millimeter
device and now can it fit into my optics
for example so that I can do
augmented reality like is this
everything is getting smaller and
smaller and smaller yeah I mean the
interesting applications from a say a
security or an investigation standpoint
like could you imagine all vehicles or
cell phones whatever our clip are
equipped with lidar through this techno
and I granted this is we're talking
about this size of it yeah actually
we're probably gonna get much smaller
that's a imagine if you can get lidar
onto a cell phone yes and you get into a
car and the first thing you do when you
pull out is your ping and you lied hour
the entire accident see holy cow dude
have you ever seen like the 3d version
of Google Earth like so imagine if your
phone had locked our capabilities
because that's where we're going and you
could take a picture and all of a sudden
you can put that in VR space yes Sasha
you can put on your VR headset and you
can be in that realm right see and I'm
thinking from search-and-rescue
standpoint like imagine if phones were
equipped with lidar I mean like we have
the amber alert system mm-hmm what if
knowing you know so-and-so has been
kidnapped okay yes okay but using a UUID
through a government database they go
boom let's run a light our skin you know
what that's all fine and good but I'm
thinking more what about family what
about people that I love that have
passed on that I can enter a virtue
reality space and and walk in to walk in
to think about this the video of an
anniversary party or a birthday party
and actually like through VR be able to
enter it because lidar gives the
capability for my VR to be able to
interact with the video in such a way
that it sees the depth and then we
integrate this capability of things to
go behind objects and things so I can
walk around alive is not alive but a
video scene yeah there's always that
like point of heartbreak when you like
for example Dave and I are renovating
his family home in Newfoundland and
there's that point where it's a
heartbreak because he has to take down
some of his old memories like his right
childhood bedroom is is painted in these
beautiful Smurfs you know collage oh
yeah wouldn't it have been awesome to be
able to do like a lidar and be able to
be able to walk through that yeah as
opposed to just but we'll light our
pickup like I don't think lighter well
you see no no no no Jeff you're missing
it you're combining lidar technology so
depth with the visual so you've got 360
video plus lidar right so this is all
part of the video so now not only can I
look around in VR which we can already
do okay I can already take a 360 video I
have 360 cameras here you're welcome to
borrow them and you can then look around
in VR space but with lidar I can walk
around in that VR space consider the
difference with lidar filming say going
back to the original idea that I
mentioned about movie yeah yeah like I'm
sitting here going to cave throwing a VR
headset suddenly we're now in like Star
Trek holodeck realms yes
well but not interactive no not as
attractive but I mean from the
standpoint of you know if you could
build like you know say you walk around
New York City and you lidar the city
yeah this is what Google is already
doing but suddenly you know essentially
like VR
you know maybe somebody has mobility
issues like I can't get to New York oh
yeah thinking of my in-laws who are from
Holland yeah my mom would love to go
back to Holland but because of health
issues she can't get on the plane I love
the idea how neat would it be to say hey
mom here's the the town you grew up and
somebody lidar at that town would you
like to VR that and actually walk around
like that would be huge ah sir yes so
cool yeah amazing
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at patreon.com slash
newsroom from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman
TVs so glad you're here I'm Jeff Weston
I'm Sasha Rickman and over there is hey
I'm Robbie Ferguson over here in the
production studio but that is all the
time that we have for this week it's
been great having you here I hope you
had fun and we've got a great couple of
shows coming up and of course we're
we're planning for the new year already
and that's where things like this
storage unit are gonna come into play
we've got some really cool stuff coming
with regards to storage and if you're
looking for any kind of Nass unit at
home we're gonna be building one
ourselves so forget about buying a Drobo
or something like that we're gonna do
something a lot cooler using some
consumer gear that we can get off of
Amazon but I hope you had fun this week
you can find us on twitter at category
five TV i personnaly i'm also on twitter
at robbie ferguson and i follow back and
we hope to see you also on our youtube
channel make sure you click on subscribe
click the bell and say hi and we look
forward to interacting with you as well
take care of a buddy for this week I'm
Robbie Ferguson I'm Sasha Rickman she
had to think about it for a moment
thank you baby here bye-bye
