here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom a u.s. convenience
store and gas station chain had malware
that stole customer payments info for
more than half of 2019 if you live in
the u.s. stick around you may be
affected a brain implant has been
invented that can read people's minds
and turn their thoughts to speech
Amazon's ring devices were a privacy
nightmare in the twenty nineteen now the
company wants to improve its image by
giving users control over their security
the company that brought us the
impossible burger is now doing a
plant-based pork substitute as well and
Google is adding new privacy and
scheduling features to their virtual
assistants sticker app the full details
are coming up later in the show this is
the category five dot TV newsroom
covering your week stop texting with a
slight linux bias
I'm
sascha Rickman joined this week by Jeff
Weston and Robbie Burns made some quick
honorable mentions this week CES may be
flooded with new tech coming out soon
but it's also a great place for
companies to show off things that
they're working on that may not be
coming out to the public Dells doing
just that with its Alienware gaming
family showing off a new concept device
dubbed concept UFO it's a handheld
gaming console that looks similar to a
Nintendo switch but it's built for
full-fledged portable PC gaming Wow the
handheld gaming console sports an 8-inch
display and removable controllers on
both ends sound familiar
due to the inclusion of such a large
display concept UFO is in fact
noticeably larger than a Nintendo switch
and it feels bulkier from what I've been
told the working model arse journalist
Valentina Palladino got to look at ran
Windows and was able to render playable
games in handheld mode docked mode in
which a console was connected to an
external display and it's controllers
were detached and another portable mode
in which the controllers were detached
but connected by a center bridge Sony
yes Sony has even demonstrated its
electric car concept Wow they didn't
suggest that this is meant for the
public but rather it's being used as a
platform for them to demonstrate some of
their up-and-coming sensor and
entertainment tech the vision s
dashboard is flanked by an ultra wide
panoramic screen for driving information
and entertainment combined among the
internal features of the car is sensing
technology that can detect occupants of
the vehicle and even recognize them in
order to allow for gesture control of
the entertainment systems in total sony
has included 33 sensors in the vision s
prototype the Japanese firm is known to
have developed portable image sensors
that can be used to analyze the road in
front of the vehicle as well
more from Sony it's all about Sony right
now but the Eric's as expected the PS 5
is shaping the future of gaming but also
the next-generation console is inspiring
their home cinema devices as well with
Sony's newest TVs they're made
specifically with the PS 5 in mind
including its 8k resolution the flagship
z8h can that's my Canadian pronunciation
is it the z8h will say well stick with
Zed Zed 8h can play at both 8k and 4k
with a full array LED and a built-in
audio system that outputs sound based on
the location of the images on screen
it's also an 85 inch screen huge whoa
there are some more mid-ranged LCD
models in the lineup as well with five
different sizes available and able to
support 120 Hertz 4k let's get into the
top stories were following this week us
convenience store Wawa recently
discovered malware that skimmed
customers payment card data at just
about all of its 850 stores the
infection began rolling out to the
stores payment processing systems on
March 4th of last year and wasn't
discovered until December the 10th it
took two more days for malware to be
fully contained most locations
point-of-sale systems were affected by
April 22nd 2019 although some locations
may not have been affected at all the
malware collected payment card numbers
expiration dates and cardholder names
from payment cards used at Wawa in-store
payment terminals and fuel dispensers
the advisory didn't say how many
customers or cards were affected the
malware didn't access debit card pins
credit card cvv2 numbers or driver
license data used to verify age
restricted purchases information
processed by in-store ATM so it was also
not affected the company has hired an
outside forensic firm to investigate the
infection people who have used payment
cards at wawel locations
should pay close attention to billing
statements over the past eight months
it's always a good idea to regularly
review credit report as well Wawa's said
it will provide one year of identity
theft protection and credit monitoring
from credit reporting service Experian
at no charge hmm you get gas now you got
to go through that yeah I can't believe
that it was active for so long before
they actually I realize perhaps one year
is not long enough just say ah that's
unfortunate though it is it's sad and I
mean when you're traveling you don't
think is my information safely my dad
always said go to the same gas station
all of the time that way you know if
there's a problem you know where it came
from
that's smart yeah yeah doesn't work if
you travel though no there's not the
brake in that case scientists have
developed a brain implant that can read
people's minds and turn their thoughts
into speech the team at the University
of California San Francisco says their
findings published in the journal Nature
could help people when disease robs them
of their ability to talk experts said
the findings were compelling and offered
hope of restoring speech the
mind-reading technology will works in
two stages first an electrode is
implanted in the brain to pick up the
electrical signals that maneuver the
lips tongue voice box and jaw then
powerful computing is used to simulate
how the movements in the mouth and
throat would be would form different
sounds
this results in synthesized speech
coming out of a virtual vocal tract
instead of scouring the brain for the
pattern of electrical signals that code
each word the focus is on the shape of
the mouth and the sounds it would
produce Professor Edward Chang one of
the researchers said quote for the first
time this study demonstrated that we can
generate an entire spoken sentences
based on an individual's brain activity
unquote the technology is not perfect
yet but shows incredible promise
here let's listen to an act
recording with the system reading its
users brainwaves and saying quote the
proof you are seeking is not available
in books the present you're seeing is
sign the livonian moves as you can hear
it's not quite perfect but keep in mind
that was generated by reading someone's
brain waves in experiments with five
people who read hundreds of sentences in
their heads listeners were able to
discern what was being spoken up to
seventy percent of the time
beyond helping restore speech there is
also the more distant prospect of
helping people who have never spoken to
learn to speak with such a device an
example might be a child with cerebral
palsy
professor Sophie Scott from the
University College London said quote
this is very interesting work from a
great lab but it must be noted that it
is at the very early stages and is not
close to clinical applications yet well
you can say that but that is incredible
so like why didn't they think of this
before because it's like my approach to
weight loss this year is like I'm not
trying to lose weight no I'm trying to
learn how how my body reacts to certain
things so similarly they're learning the
the movement of the mouth right like the
same way like I think about like false
limbs like robotic limbs they use nerves
to actually control the hand and
everything so this is like that but
moving of false mouth in a way to make
the sounds the interesting thing about
this though is the fact that it's using
the brain signals that would go to the
mouth and voice box implies that you
have to have already been able to speak
right that's why they're saying
eventually it will be right so I think
it would be hard to train somebody who's
never spoken and maybe that's it yeah
exactly so like I'm sitting there
thinking you know you might have like a
nonverbal autistic child yes you
wouldn't be able to use this not the
weight room that's not necessarily true
though because we don't and and there
are cases certainly where it's not going
to be applicable and another case would
be somebody who stopped speaking because
of say brain brain dead
that has affected their ability to
generate those signals so but what if
the signal cutoff is somewhere between
the brain and the mouth and the vocal
cords what if like I you're talking
about a child who can't speak well
sometimes you'll see them moving their
mouth but there's no sound coming out
and so there are cases where maybe maybe
the brain is sending the signal but
maybe it's not being interpreted
correctly or maybe there's a nerve
that's not functioning correctly who
knows right but this is a case where
it's not gonna work for it's not a
cure-all for everyone right
but with 70 percent accuracy this well
here's the thing this is the starting
point the starting point is 70 percent I
can't even believe they're here I know
it'll be interesting to see how this
plays into things like end-of-life care
and legal rights as far as ability to
take care of themselves I mean how many
people have you seen their health
deteriorates and they end up in a
position where they can no longer
communicate but maybe muscular right but
maybe in their head they still have the
ability to process those thoughts is
like ALS exactly yes so that a stroke
yeah totally great so cool exciting we
have got to take a quick break more of
this week's top tech stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere
[Music]
welcome back with criticism mounting
Amazon's of rape revealed a web -
dashboard of privacy controls it hopes
will slash the number of horror stories
coming from customers earlier this week
and in time for CES the home
surveillance camera an
internet-connected doorbell specialists
made a point of unveiling an account
control panel it hopes will allow users
to better manage the access settings on
their devices and keep hackers and other
intruders out the new controls will be
available across all products ring said
in the announcement quote the control
center will initially let you see and
manage your connected mobile desktop and
tablet devices as well as third-party
services it will also enable you a to
opt out of receiving video requests in
areas where a local police have joined
the neighbors app end quote this comes
after ring found itself under fire on a
number of fronts for its privacy
policies and security protections civil
rights groups have raised concerns since
the cameras provide officers excessive
levels of surveillance power in short
ring encourages its customers to share
their web connected camera footage with
neighbors and the police opening up a
whole can of worms regarding privacy and
consent while it's clear there are
privacy concerns over cheap surveillance
devices being installed in people's
homes hopefully the move to a user
control dashboard will help improve
security definitely it's interesting
isn't it how these smart devices
originally when they first started
coming out we're taking away this
security control from the user so we
were all having to make the assumption
that our devices were secure now as
we're learning no it's actually there is
actually problems now they're saying
okay we're gonna create interfaces for
you to be able to control that security
and they're adding features
and and you know there you can say smart
devices and connected devices are a bad
thing well they're probably not they're
just young and I think we do have to
give some grace to the companies that
are manufacturing them because they are
they're learning from their mistakes and
I think they're they're proving the to
that they're making changes based on
those mistakes I heard one argument that
well it doesn't enforce two-factor
authentication by default and I thought
wow what today it doesn't force
two-factor authentication and I set up a
bank account with my bank this week and
they gave me online banking and they
didn't enforce two-factor authentication
talked into it right
the bank didn't do it so yeah we're
being really hard on a new platform for
the very same thing that the bank here
in Canada like I'm not talking TD Canada
Trust like a big bank they don't enforce
either right so so we got to put things
into context but yes I think it's a good
thing that companies are starting to
respond to their users and I think it's
kind of neat that they're creating a
capability for law enforcement to
utilize neighborhood cameras I remember
there was a car accident
in the summer someone driving a Tesla at
top speed hit a hill and crashed it
remember that yes I do and the police
were able to tap into a surveillance
camera on a house nearby
they saw the entire accident like that's
cool we wouldn't want our privacy
violated that's the thing we have to
find the line and I think having control
and being able to say okay the the one
in my garage is mine yeah the one that's
pointed at the street you can you can
you can have access to that yeah you
know just having a certain level of user
control is a good thing interesting you
know Mike nope just to stop new year new
decade
oh is this is this your resolution I
like it
right a plant-based pork substitute has
been launched at CES by one of the
leading alternative meat producers a
food product unveiled at the CES tech
show you betcha there's some serious
tech involved in creating this
sustainable alternative to meat the new
product contains no gluten animal
hormones or antibiotics and is designed
to comply with kosher and halal rules
the firm's sausage and plant-based pork
products a similar to ground beef
substitute are made using heme a
molecule derived from plants that
contains iron and resembles blood heme
is found in real meat but can be
produced without farming animals
impossible Foods founder and chief
executive Patrick Brown says they're
expanding products of size of their
extended expanding product line quote we
won't stop until we eliminate the need
for our animals in the food chain and
make the global food system sustainable
and close beyond that impossible pork
contains around half the calories of
sausage meat and is also significantly
lower in fat until recently China was
home to around half the world's farmed
pigs but millions of them have died or
been cold due to the spread of the
African swine fever a viral disease that
infects pigs and has no known cure pork
is Hugh in huge demand in Asia China
alone produces and consumes more of the
meat than any other country impossible
foods say that there isn't that
synthetic pork product will suit a
variety of Asian dishes that's
interesting we're we're at that point
where like I think I said on a show
years ago
won't it be neat when they can
synthesize right and they're here they
are in that that tricky little spot
where they're just about to tip right
over into a mold synthesize station I
can't speak but but what's weird about
it
from a technology standpoint is that
it's like meat like it's not like ground
mushrooms
held together with gluten right that's
where I have a hard time so I don't eat
meat but I don't eat meat because I
don't like meat and so I like
so that's different from the ethical our
sustainability perfectly whereas like
people who want to eat healthier or want
to hmm
to tread light or happy that all of
those things are happening in my life
but that's not the reason I don't eat
meat okay so once they're able to do
bacon I think that that's the point when
everybody in this whole world is going
to be like and everyone who says but
they have vegetarian bacon but it's not
I can tell you that because I like the
vegetarian bacon and I don't like bacon
so that means no I do like I on the
other hand eat meat yeah yeah but but
I've tasted a lot of these alternatives
yeah have you tried the impossible
burger does anyone sell it yes plenty of
places including grocery stores and is
there any restaurant example I think
then what's the one I think the one that
I've tried is beyond burger not
impossible perhaps that's why they end
up yours yeah and W has them have you
tried it
mm-hmm and it was good but it was
tougher than beef they didn't have a
nice soft like beef tenderness it was
tougher like it seemed gluttonous to me
okay so with that so I yeah it was good
but I wouldn't go out of my way to buy
it personally but if you were a
vegetarian or a vegan and they did an
alternative then that's a reasonable
alternative and I mean if in China
they're having a big pork shortage this
is it and they use full flavor dishes
right so I think that really just
membership mimicking the texture is
probably all it's not always needed like
I mean if you have some soup and you
want to just have like a couple of meaty
chunks in it like throw in some pork
alternative whatever what I want to know
though is how did it end up at CES
because of the technology right what
tech no like I want to know me
on me no mean I'd like it meat good
bacon good how you do that how did you
exactly like what is it about the tack
that makes this happen because Jeff they
clearly it's science there's a tech that
pulls a specific thing out of plants
that is produced by the same thing that
comes out of meat like that and it's
like they're creating synthetic meat
from plants what happens but it's that's
what I mean by it's different from
ground-up vegetables right together with
glue it's not like texturized vegetable
no it's like it's like me it's like in a
lot of ways like it's very very similar
that's where I that's where they're
getting to that point I still want real
bacon it's like the petri dish that this
is not but like when we've talked about
the petri dish meat that is grown in a
dish that has never actually been an
animal yeah it totally does from a
sustainability standpoint though I do
understand that there's too much factory
farming going on I understand that yeah
and you know for health sake I'm gonna
like eat healthier I'm not I'm still
eating meat but I'm not eating as much
right of unhealthy stuff I just don't
cook my eggs on my bacon grease anymore
healthier perfect Tuesday all of the new
capabilities it's added to its voice
assistant including various additions to
the way it handles privacy one of these
systems new privacy features will allow
users to delete a record of the most
recent command by saying that wasn't for
you
this means users can delete voice
recordings immediately if someone else
starts at the separate conversation in
the background or if the user decides
that what was said should not be shared
users can also ask are you saving my
audio data to learn more about their
privacy controls and to go directly to
the settings screen to change their
preferences as well as delete voice
assistant activity from a Google account
by saying things like quote delete
everything I said to you this week the
assistant has had a fair share of
privacy concerns with Google confirming
in August that third-party
kurz were systematically listening
systematically listening and linking
private touch conversations collected by
the assistance it had been revealed that
more than 1,000 files had been leaked
from these workers including recordings
of from instances where users
accidentally triggered Google's software
after the incident a google paused all
of its language for a few operations
these new privacy features common not
too long after Google decided to revamp
its assistant privacy policy last year
the changes from last year included
Google making it default for the voice
assistant to not retain audio recordings
a once a request is fulfilled meaning
that users have to opt in to let Google
keep any voice recordings made by the
device it also added a feature that
allows users to review and delete past
historical audio recordings besides the
security enhancements other additions to
the assistant announced by Google on
Tuesday include the ability to schedule
certain tasks for example users that
have a Google home integrated washer or
dryer can schedule a load of laundry
with the assistant this feature is set
to be rolled out later this year Google
has added support for various new smart
devices categories such as AC units
coffee makers vacuums and smart bathtubs
among others I would love for my device
to be able to make me good coffee oh and
bring it to me I would like to be able
to run a bath I don't know about the
bath thing and I don't know about the
anything with water bath and laundry
I think I'm against I think it would be
cool I know that my neighbor down the
street has one of the new like washer
and dryer in one machine yep right so if
you put a load of wash in but you know
that you're gonna be home from work at a
certain time yes that stuff to be not
wrinkly just sitting there then you
could like time one into your home scene
I'm the guy who has had pipes break and
had right things like that happened so
for me it's like I monitor things like I
check on the laundry while it's
happening
right I check on the lot the dishwasher
while it's happening I don't run them
when I'm not home I super trust me yeah
my dad had it happen where the laundry
machine started spraying water all over
and they didn't know and it just
destroyed their basement so it's just
like yeah I'm not for that but make me a
coffee yeah that beer and bring it to me
what I find interesting about this story
is that it's go yeah the stories it's
Google and they're making changes toward
users being able to control their
privacy once again right but it's
interesting that Google kind of missed
the boat on this initially I feel like
Google has kind of always been ahead of
the game when it comes to that respect
for privacy because they've kind of been
the front-runner mm-hmm
so the fact that they're trying to play
catch-up now and the fact that there was
audio breaches where conversations were
being shared I'm going wow Google come
on yeah but I mean it's good to see that
they're making these changes you know
but it's all of us think everybody's
learning right including Google
obviously listen this is why I don't let
anyone else do anything and I do I'm
terrible at delegating because I'm
afraid of someone making mistakes and so
they've hired a third party company or
maybe they had staff that was doing this
job and that staff leaked the
information yep yes that was meant to be
internal like we need to improve our
product now I have an Amazon device at
home mm-hmm
ditto so these features like that wasn't
meant for you and stuff mm-hmm are their
equivalents on the Amazon devices I'm
seeing very similar kinds of
enhancements happening okay
Amazon and you know I've talked about it
before but the Amazon echo I have mine
set in the app to make a tone any time
it hears its activity outward and so
sometimes you'll hear me if if it goes
off here I just say cancel so in the
middle of a conversation somebody says
that the action word by accident and I
hear DubLi and I say cancel and it just
now it comes naturally so right and I
wish sometimes it will work in real life
conversations with humans I convinced
our kids that ours is now Hansel gecko
yes you can change your what no because
o because we chose echo yeah as the as
the name Oh
but because you've got gecko I convinced
my kids to call it gecko nice oh my god
changed the name to get girls are the
like gecko that's cool
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux
bias and for if you appreciate what we
do become a patron at patreon.com slash
news herb from the category five dots of
a newsroom I'm Sasha Bergman I'm Robbie
Ferguson and I'm Jeff Lester
