[Music]
hi guys hello today's coffee break it is
the fifth of April 2020 nice to see
everybody who do we have here today hey
Bill hi Robbie hi bp9 oh there so do ya
he didn't even I just have my phone with
me today so that's I can't see like they
can't see everybody he's there but
everybody's having a good day
a gwg oh nice yeah I noticed that it
takes my phone camera and makes it for
over three I wish it would be sixteen
over nine but I didn't we couldn't find
a setting for it so that's the same
dimensions isn't it sixteen over nine
and four over three four over three is
the old kind of more like a a four piece
of paper mm-hmm
sixteen over nine is no woods - I know
what I for is it's not a few step yeah
so can consider it like a four versus
legal yeah right yep and category 5 is
18 over 9 so they call that ultra wide
cuz you just can't help yourself can you
no man it goes to 11
[Laughter]
yeah yeah
that that was one of the things I would
have wanted to do hey Robert I saw you
come in there for a moment yeah I
finally was able to make it amazing
anybody else here that we haven't said
hi to yet
doesn't look like no all right now
Robbie you used to have a 360 degree
camera did you not yes but it was it was
like homemade and it was a brutal amount
of work to stitch so and like editing
was nasty now I wonder if it might be a
little bit better now that I've got the
i9 and I'm not doing it on the old i7
but still are just an amazing amount of
work oh yeah these days bp9 the thing is
is you can get a consumer camera for
like 500 bucks that has really good 360
stitching and it was like effortless but
the stuff that I was doing it was I had
to fisheye lenses butted back to back on
a homemade mounting kit that I've
created with hardware from the hardware
store
and then and then I had to stitch it all
together myself and edit it and sync up
the audio to the 360 it was a lot of
working well well I am sorry that I
missed your phantom of the opera' cut ah
inside though hey I saw it in the
recording yesterday I was I was out
running errands and and also had to do
some chores around the house and I just
I thought you might appreciate that I
did see it live so yeah it it's
completely black until you put coffee in
it and then the mask turns to white very
much yep that's the bee's knees right it
says coffee on the one side and it has a
it is dark green or something all the
way until about a centimeter on the top
and then it has another color and it's
yeah I remember I thought it was a
on sale because it was made wrong and I
until I found maybe five years ago from
the story they had that oh it's intended
to be a there were category five
color-changing mugs for a while I never
got one well yeah the temperature oh
yeah yeah you put hot water hot coffee
in it or whatever a tea and it would
change color so so I got like I started
getting reviews on our store people
saying I love the color changing mug and
I'm like well it wasn't me that made
them so some company on the states was
making making category-five color
changing mugs oh yeah day to day urine
good morning are you in the man cave
today yeah Robbie I'm in the studio II
kind of tucked into the back corner so
it's getting a few things done I pulled
down that antenna today oh you're
sleeping there now aren't you
it's almost to that point
no I I haven't gotten as much time here
actually as I would have as I had
originally planned or what a like right
so but just take you know now we're here
and there as best I can and try to chip
away hi Peter p9 question about favorite
bridge iconography I got say working on
my mondays computer but I I need to know
how to include graphics library as well
to glue two graphics libraries I could
have all the libraries see just by
itself does not come with any with any
libraries you have to go find them and
include them yourself and you could L be
on that one blade what sort of graphics
are you looking to do I'm not sure we
should be doing this
on the coffee break
send me a note on discord maybe we can
talk about it okay I did great of the
you realize yeah okay III won glad we
dodged but when I was that's too generic
I don't know what graphics dot eight
years I'm not sure what you're trying to
do the best thing I can do is suggest
you get on like Stack Overflow or Google
or one of the search engines to see if
you can find exactly what it is you're
looking for I apologize it's too generic
I don't know what you're trying to do
and I suspect we're probably going to
get into we're probably going to run out
of time here I don't build a Joao you do
have games go to get me if they working
with doggy die kids a general thing but
any any other libraries and I wanted to
draw the good news where based on the
screen and great windows I could you did
within the agree ok job Dom the window
did in it but I need I knew I needed
more likely to do that until the exam
and an example I am but a library today
there see by itself won't won't do that
you need to install third-party
libraries is a very good YouTube help
yeah yeah surely you'll get better value
out of that then you will enemy over
this coffee break I'm sorry about
yesterday I did a bunch of a bunch of
work around the house so mowed the lawn
and my allergist caught up with me so
that was not fun
so if you hear me coughing it's the
allergies it's not the bad word so the
heads up man yeah I just wanna let me
have to explain why and I Robbie I must
apologize I've not done any further
study yet on the on the point I'm but oh
that's fine cuz you are way ahead of me
my friend oh I'm already like holy cow I
gotta catch up yeah well as I say that's
why I mention there's some learning for
you to do in the in terms of you know
building C programs just like with Peter
but my next step is to to look at the it
looks like there's one despaired there's
one example I should say that already
does a lot of what I'm trying to do so I
think that I will only use that example
or likely just grab some code from it
and include it in my own project it's
fairly generic code and so my plan is to
do that but they did not use a library
lady not use the Adafruit library they
drove the display directly themselves
which is which is something on they
joined the stand so that's gonna be
that's gonna be my next steps and that's
what I'll document sir yeah yep yep I
can't wait to learn that stuff and I
think that's a good good methodology and
maybe you know Peter can get a takeaway
from that too is to find code out there
that already does what you're trying to
do and even you know pull some of the
code from that that's that's how a lot
of us learn that's how open-source works
yeah things about it yeah they offer the
source to help you learn the go get the
died road I need money did I probably
good it's like in the water the
University I could probably remember out
to 25 years 30 25 years ago walk
probably remember there
probably remember to grab NATO zoetry
yeah
Google is our friend these days yeah yep
that's them that's the best advice I can
offer you Peter I apologize but that's
the best advice that I can all good
advice no apology necessary when it's
good advice well I'd like to be able to
help him out and say yeah here's what
you but you need to you but to do that
we have to get into a lot more detail
than what what we can do what we can do
here so the fun process though as we
learn for sure but we all have to learn
at our individual level and and what it
is that you know what our project
involves right so what you develop e9 is
doing is very different than what
Peter's doing and the beauty of it is
that the the best way to learn is to
have a project in mind I mean the
application that I was trying to build
when I finally settled on that trio of
libraries you know Steve gtk and sqlite3
it was it was just a specific problem I
was trying to solve for many many years
and I cycled through many the graphical
UI libraries before I finally settled on
on JDK but it was all but the whole
point of it was it was a very simple
application it doesn't do anything you
know doesn't do anything world
shattering or anything like that but it
was an itch I needed a scratch it was it
was a problem I was trying to solve and
that solutions been working for years
now and I'd be it's great that that's
that's how in fact that that's how I
learned and now learning the point I'm I
can draw on all that experience that
I've had previously I'm not sure I was
gonna say I was gonna say I'm not sure
the point I'm would be the first thing I
would try but hey why not you gotta
start somewhere right yes so that's
mostly how almost every software is made
that way someone had something they
wanted done that or less from each they
wanted to scratch and I made some
and free software and sharing source
code they came about because the idea
that if anyone else found any use for it
about it right why reinvent the wheel
right that's exactly the amazing thing I
am I have it maybe seven or eight
software packages there i and that i am
the upstream developer for but i have
made only one from there from the ground
up and it was in 96 i believe i had in
995 somewhere on that i had in 1994 i i
bought my first computer it was at 286
and no one knew how big the hard drive
was and and eventually IRA managed to
find out but the one a.m. feature that
ms-dos they didn't have as far as I
could find was how to find out in an
easy way how much free space you had on
the drive it could easily tell you how
much space you used and you can
calculate it based on how big the big
drivers from how much free had left but
then but that required you to know how
big that big their drivers and I didn't
know so I got someone gave me a copy of
Pascal 5.0 and it has it had on
excellent built-in help system you could
browse for hours on the end and on each
each function had an example of how you
use the code so I used that and I made
something that tell that they told me
how much free space I had an ex driver
so I wouldn't feel only that good
approach the probably know the product I
did a university and I think was very
wealthy very well
don't go now I haven't I betrayed Bobby
I'm relearning again because when I was
ill I made up let's go
Lazarus and it's going to dirt projects
ever quite quickly and I learned quite
quickly you move the objects on this
lady you did orbs as well you know my
god very easy to do things like quickly
we doesn't think yeah and you could like
what God blacks a difficult thing work
yeah you what to do and all the tools
got started the links colonel got
started because Alina's Toral's had some
experience on the university of of unix
and they wanted to have it at home but
they're buying it was just out of the
question
a single user license in 91 was about
twenty twelve twenty thousand if finish
marks
I imagine it was about the same in a US
dollars so I'm on a student budget that
is and MINIX said that in he discovered
he wanted to add some function study and
needed and talking about it extend it
because he did just enough of what he
wanted to do and I mean the last ten
years up until that point Elliot or also
had always made everything himself
because that just what she had to do and
so how how can this be yeah it's hard
it's harder I think now to innovate
because a lot of stuff has already been
done before it's like you say why
reinvent the wheel but
you know there are still things that we
can come up with ideas that we can come
up with better ways or ways to take
multiple different projects and merge
them together in such a way that it
creates something new no change big day
is an example reinventing almost every
industry at the moment what's a good
example I'm sorry Robert I missed that
blockchain cryptocurrencies yeah example
decentralized finance well the problem
with that is that that blockchain is
getting bigger and bigger you try to
download the Bitcoin blockchain you'll
be there literally for days yeah there's
an studio he's internet you've got
you've got two different nodes there
you've got a perma note one that
contains absolutely everything and then
a small note and yeah I've got your
Raspberry Pi running with a complete
note and also lightning note on it oh
it's possible to do that
speaking of Raspberry Pi again a note
for Robbie one of the things that I did
was to get raspbian OS which i think is
a Debian based OS running on Miraz PI
the package that I was thinking of using
that I was still thinking of using for
driving or programming date the phone
time they suggested you know hardwiring
it to the Raspberry Pi and then using
the R as part of programmer yeah I
thought that what that meant was that
they would need a proper programming
environment on the Raspberry Pi itself
you know something like studio code or
code blocks or or VI or any other editor
it doesn't matter what but definitely
that's not required apparently the idea
is the way it's set up is the Raspberry
Pi is continually trying to talk to the
watch using I think it's open o CB or
something like that
and all you do is you telling it into
the Raspberry Pi you do all the main
work on a laptop or your desktop or
whatever and you all you do then is you
just tell that to the Raspberry Pi and
you just and you just upload the image
that way I spent it all not currently
pushing yes I spent all night one day
you know I think it was Friday night or
something patiently setting up the X
xfce window manager and getting
everything nicely set up and by the way
performs I'm sorry Bo if you're I don't
know if those online I don't think so
but the applying the point book does not
perform very well when you're dragging
Windows around now the PlayBook pro and
you've already demonstrated Robi works
really well in that respect but the
Raspberry Pi does too that thing is that
thing is amazing minds are as play Rigo
think there might be a late trailer or
in 34 yeah but it just flies it's a it's
a it's amazing I mean it's not as
powerful as my you know six core you
know desktop with a nice graphics card
and all that but it'll do for for a
programming environment so yes that's
what is beautiful it's a beautiful
machine a rough free pie yes it is yeah
especially the size though so
something's very good it's it just blows
me away I can't I can't believe you can
fit so much power in such a small
package but I know that something Robbie
you get excited about I'm thinking
what's all this excitement about these
single board computers until you realize
they're and as I mentioned that last one
ear rivaling desktops in terms of
performance it's just crazy but I also
find great with the pay is that you can
experiments you can attach different to
gadgets and just play around with it
relays lights whatever mm-hm
you can't do that with a desktop that's
true you can't you can't
do it though with an Arduino yeah yeah
and and here's a here's another thing
another comment a real quick side coming
for you Robbie's we were talking about
the doorbell that displays the old cars
image on the at idea studio I would use
the odd I think I would use the Arduino
for that and here's the reason why is
because if the power goes out for any
reason even if you connect your a spy to
a them to a UPS eventually the UPS will
will run out of power and if the power
goes out unexpectedly on the Raspberry
Pi you end up with roughly hurt yes you
end up corrupting the image on the SD
card and that means that it just quits
working right even when the power comes
back it it won't reboot because the SD
cards corrupted Arduino however that's
not true once you've programmed it much
like to find time once you've programmed
it even if the power goes out it'll stop
working well the power is out obviously
but but as soon as the power comes back
on again
bang it just starts work it's a straight
it's like it's like the old computers
where it just boots right into the ROM
real quick right exactly and I like what
you explained about the pine time that's
interesting yes so can you can you write
full programs for like as far as Arduino
goes my experience with Arduino so far
has been strictly setting up relays that
would be triggered by events that's as
advanced as it's gone I've never hooked
up a screen to one so that's why I
hesitated I do have a screen on my
Arduino and I have been able to draw
images and text to it but I don't know
if it's a touchscreen or I don't I doubt
that it's a touchscreen so you can't get
it really easy on a PI right because you
can just and plug in an HDMI monitor
with USB touchscreen capabilities and
you're done
yes that's true yep yep so yeah I there
are pros and cons just from
but if the power goes yeah for any
reason and it shuts down the raw spy
connectedly
you're done we're having like a GPIO
powered I took I squared C ups built
into the PI that's what I prefer so
something like rye Voyager moving off of
Pi 3 seconds or upped it even though the
power wasn't lost and I one thing about
the PI ecosystem I remember someone
mentioned it in our discussion to you or
C years ago so but I can't I can't hear
you Peter do you mind muting your
microphone for us Peter sorry good
things about the PI and the form factor
is that it's a good way for people
people also today to learn how computers
actually work and because you can put
things together and it's small enough
that you actually can know what all the
little components and chips actually do
on their big computers today and often
it's so so big and complex that they're
and they are afraid to even open up and
if they thing and and pride just comes
you have to put it together to make it
look nice so and then that also is on a
way for people they get excited about
actually doing some programming and
learning how to do that sure yeah along
that vein just to kind of in closing
because we're just about at a time but
one thing that I did just order for the
studio here I've had my eye on it for
some time because I've wanted to have
some way to put
raspberry pies and pine 64 and Odroid
single board computers in in my server
rack right so I've had my eye on this
star tech 1u server chassis its Mini ITX
right but they just dropped them down on
Amazon to Half Price
hmmm and they're still shipping them so
$30 I get a 1u rack mountable server
chassis and I'm gonna put a piece of
Plexiglas in the bottom cut to the size
of Mini ITX so it'll be screwed in just
like a motherboard and then I'm gonna
have individual standoffs for each type
of single board computer that I want to
use in there so I can have a mix of
raspberry PI's and Odroid Xu fours and
whatever else I want to put in there I
figure a mini ITX is gonna hold probably
at least 5 or 6 single board computers
in that one chassis plus I don't need to
put any hard drives so I can probably
stick one over there and probably don't
need a standard traditional power supply
so I can stick one over there so should
have a lot of room to put stuff in then
I'm going to put a barrel plug on the
side of the case which I'm gonna be able
to plug in a 5 volt 15 amp power supply
like a laptop power supply or something
and just basically just run a circuit
for the power for all those boards to be
powered off of that 5 volt scar now is
this gonna be like a drawer a drawer
arrangement that you can just pull the
thing out on a drawer or you'd have to
get rails for that yeah you'd have to
get rails for that so I'm just gonna I'm
just gonna bolt it right on the on the
panel but it has a removable panel just
like any server chassis would so if I if
I place it up where there's an opening
above then then I'd still be able to
access it to change the ground if you
definitely use more than one you did too
oh yeah beg your pardon
you making a single board supercomputer
pretty much yeah I don't think I'm gonna
I don't think I'm gonna cluster it i nee
is the cluster board for clustering but
but I am going to have it
so that it's like so that I can have all
the different purposes of these boards
in one chassis I just want to it just
looks clean right just to look really
nice so cuz I've got various things that
are running off a single board computers
and I'd like to do that more and more
now and to you know it's silent goes in
the rack it's cool I just can't imagine
what somebody could do with that many
super computers or that many single home
well I use I use one to run our discord
bot I use one to bring discord up on the
show on the screen
through it has an HDMI output and runs
the web server and then I've got various
things I've got my name's Linux server
to monitor our assets
I've got Elliott just various things
like that right but I like to do I like
to do single tasks single board
computers I don't like to take a
Raspberry Pi and make it do everything
because it's not a very powerful
computer look like it will run better if
you give it single tasks like this
Raspberry Pi
that's my discord bot this one this is
so if they work really really well in
that kind of scenario so and they're so
affordable that you can you can easily
ask for them that way so yeah and if you
fry one or if one gets damaged or fails
you it's like 20 bucks to replace it and
you just take it out switch the card
around and you're done so just makes a
lot of sense from that perspective as
well but and it's a fun project
speaking of silent the fans on my big
machine have finally gone quiet because
sitting at home which is a project that
I've been driving through some some work
yep units four and has finally stopped
distributing work yep as of the 1st of
April this was not an April Fool's joke
they they actually did stop producing
they did stop distributing work so yep
they the reason why is because they are
aliens to find
well they've decided that color did
enough data which kind of strange to me
I would have thought they could I don't
think they've searched the attempt of
the sky for radio signals yeah but they
claim they need to start analyzing all
the data and coming up with an actual
paper to submit for rate for the for the
research project I mean that's what the
research front that's what this is right
it is a research project whose I whose
aim is to say here's what we did is what
we expected is what we found yeah
so I've got a bet they've started that
you know analyzing phase rather than
rather than focus so much on
undistributing workload and having the
results come down and collating are you
gonna recommit your hardware to
something like folding at home I haven't
decided yet there's a virus opening at
home beg your pardon
the virus version of home yeah I know
that's that's what I that's what I'm
talking about yeah you know definitely
look into that for sure yep all right
guys well it's been fun as always and
nice to have everybody here we are out
of time for a coffee break for today I'm
just at the studio just getting some
things done and then I'm gonna go home
and spend some time with my wife and
kids and do some board games and stuff
like that so have a wonderful afternoon
everyone see you tomorrow right there
