covering the week's top text dorks like
Linux bias pine 64 is $200 pro grade
Linux laptop is now available with a
u.s. keyboard en customers who
pre-ordered theirs are receiving the
first shipment now nice the pine Book
Pro ships with a customized version of
Debian pre-installed that's right this
is a true Linux laptop it also has a few
other tricks up its sleeve like a
bootable microsd card slot so that you
can easily run another operating system
off a cheap memory card whenever you
feel like it just about all laptop all
laptop computers use Intel processors
these days only a very small percentage
of Windows laptops have started using
Qualcomm ARM processors the PI Book Pro
actually uses a 64-bit ARM processor
called the rockchip rk3288 60 mp4 GPU
which is made by the same company that
makes the Pine Book Pro Pine
Microsystems Inc Pine also makes other
computing hardware such as compute
modules and single board computers that
you can build into other projects and as
Robbie mentioned last week there even
they even bring a cheap privacy focused
smartphone to market that runs Linux
natively the pine book pro includes 4
gigabytes of RAM which is the maximum
supported by the rockchip so it's not
upgradable by default it also includes a
64 gigabytes at emmc storage module
which you can upgrade if you want but as
Westerners the biggest problem we had
with the original pine book and even the
first run of Pine Book Pro was the
keyboard there's just no way to get
reviewers or in end-users in Canada or
the u.s. to truly love an ISO keyboard
which is a layout more familiar to users
in the UK but now as of last week users
who pre-ordered our wrist
they're antsy keyboard pine book pros
antsy is more commonly called the u.s.
keyboard layout so for $200 Linux fans
can get a solid professional and super
sleek laptop that has keys where they
expect them so how can i pine sixty-four
sells such a find piece of kit for only
$200 because they love you that's why
actually that's not even sarcasm the
pine book pro is being sold at cost as a
gift to the open source loving community
so it's not technically meant for
regular users if you believe in freedom
and like to tinker and learn about
technology the pine Book Pro is meant
for you this is awesome I said it last
week with no words but pine sixty-four
yeah this is so good I like it now when
people first purchased the original pine
books and the time of pros did they know
it was coming with the alternate
keyboard or were they expecting the pine
nut pro yes the pine book never did the
brain book came with the ISO keyboard
that's what it came with and when we
reviewed it here on the show you
remember like it was like I can't get my
head around this thing and for those of
you who live in the UK and places where
the ISO keyboard is you're like this is
great this is fantastic but no when
you're used to an American layout it's
completely different and it seems
completely whacked I mean I've seen
reviews online and and I'm part of that
where it's like I just can't get my head
around the ISO keyboard layout my
keyboard is a French layout and Robbie
doesn't goodness yeah I mean we're here
in Canada up here in Studio T and
government I don't know if his
legislation or what says that things
have to be French and English combined
so if you walk into a Super Center and
buy a laptop it's a French English
keyboard and keys are all over the place
yeah and so even when I was setting it
up with with cloud-ready it was like I
was pushing the wrong keys yeah I just
because I always type just pushing there
so never notice the difference in
keyboard to be honest maybe you've just
never had to experience that great well
I guess but connoisseur is a fine
keyboard every keyboard I use like I
recognize that they're all gonna be
different so I just roll with it but I
suppose what happens is that they don't
all have to be different and that's the
do touch type like do you type 180 words
a minute like Robby like if it's a
cyborg it bits out of the if it's out of
place I am going to push the wrong keys
because the keys are meant to be where
my fingers are trained to know that they
are sitting before the show he's like
magic before the show I was doing this
on your key you're like yeah he's like
what's your password because he needed
it to get into my penis like all this
like suggest a strong password it's like
this long symbols that I didn't even
know the name of which on a French
keyboard incidentally is in the wrong
Roman place so I showed Robbie my phone
and he was just like yes type in for a
minute that's how it works right on a
French keyboard too so I added a slash
at the end there because that's where
the Enter key is supposed to be so yeah
knowing that now an ANSI keyboard is
available which is the u.s. layout I'm
very excited I really appreciate to that
they're selling it it costs me it feels
like a big hug like it's a it's just a
sure thing to know that a company cares
that much and pine sixty-four I've
always felt cares about respects and is
even a part of that open-source
community yeah and there's a mindset
there's like a spirit about the
open-source community the true
open-source community not the there
there's kind of two facets of it there's
the the angry like if you use Windows
you are the devil side of open-source
and there's the side that just really
loves freedom and really loves community
support and of giving help to people and
becoming part of communities and
becoming part of online forums and help
other people like there's that aspect
and that's the aspect that I really feel
pine 64 really falls into mm-hmm and so
to offer yeah something like the pine
Book Pro which is a beautiful notebook
computer in two different models now for
ISO and ANSI so they heard the call of
the reviewers here in Canada in the US
yes and they're offering it at cost for
two hundred bucks
what so for the cost of a premium
Chromebook you're getting a computer
that you can just slap Linux on it comes
with Linux yeah it's got more power it's
got a lot of oomph mmm and I'm really
really keen and excited about the Pine
Book Pro so well done pine sixty-four
and to the community at Pine 64 I mean
we love you here at category 5 yes we do
and certainly appreciate the entire team
so thank you for all that you do
[Music]
