all right here are the stories were
covering this week in the category five
dot TV newsroom a piece of malware has
been found on both iOS and Android
that's been stealing contacts audio
location data and more for several years
Sony has created a colossal 16k screen
which will soon be on display in Japan a
newly discovered privilege escalation
Flom the apache web server allows
malicious users to gain root access to
the underlying OS and astronomers have
revealed the first-ever image of a black
hole that exists in a galaxy called m87
and it's 500 million trillion kilometers
away these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories Linux bias Jeff Weston Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what aren't you you're a
terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act ok I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap 5 dot TV slash dream host to
sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host I'm Jeff lesson and here the
top stories were following this week a
piece of malware has been found on both
iOS and Android that's been stealing
contacts audio location data and more
for several years researchers recently
discovered a well-funded mobile phone
surveillance operation that was capable
of Suri pitously stealing a variety of
data from phones running both the iOS
and Android operating systems
researchers believe the malware is
so-called lawful intercept and it's sold
to law enforcement and governments
Exodus as the malware for Android phones
has been dubbed was under development
for at least five years it was spread in
apps disguised as service applications
for my Italian mobile operators exodus
was hidden inside apps available on
phishing websites and nearly 25 apps
available in Google Play and a report
published two weeks ago researchers at
security Without Borders said exodus
infected phones estimated to be in the
several hundreds if not thousands or
more Exodus consisted of three distinct
stages the first was a small dropper
that can collected basic information
information about the device such as the
IMEI and the phone number and sent it to
the command and control server a second
stage was installed almost immediately
after the researchers test phone was
infected with the first stage and also
reported to the control server that led
researchers to believe that all phones
infected with stage 1 are
indiscriminately infected with later
stages
stage 2 consisted of multiple binary
packages that implemented the bulk of
the advanced serve
capabilities some of the variants
encrypted communication was with
self-signed certificates that were
pinned to the apps the batteries could
also take advantage of capabilities
available on specific devices for one
instance one binary made use of
protected apps a feature in the highway
phones to keep Exodus running even when
the screen went dark rather than to be
suspended to reduce battery consumption
a third stage would attempt to let
Exodus again to gain route control over
infected phones typically though through
the use of an exploit dubbed dirty cow
once fully installed Exodus was able to
carry out in an extensive amount of
surveillance including recording phone
conversations extracting calendar events
record audio or video or take photos at
will view the address book or call log
read SMS messages and more that's a big
list the researchers say that their
analysis of Exodus led to this discovery
of servers that in addition to Exodus
hosted on an iOS version of the malware
the iPhone surveillance malware was
distributed on phishing sites that
masqueraded is mobile carriers the iOS
version was installed using the Apple
developer Enterprise program which
allows organizations to distribute
in-house apps to employees or members
using the iOS App Store the apps
masqueraded as mobile carrier assistance
apps that instructed users to keep the
app installed on their device and stay
under Wi-Fi coverage to be contacted by
one of our operators it's not clear how
many phones were infected by the iOS
apps the iOS various variant isn't as
sophisticated as Exodus
unlike Exodus the iOS version wasn't
observed to use exploits instead it
relied on documented programming
interfaces it was nonetheless able to
exfiltrate a variety of sensitive data
the researchers reported their findings
to Apple who swiftly revoked the
enterprise certificate the revulsion
revocation was in if what has an effect
of preventing the apps from being
installed on the new iPhones and
stopping them from running on infected
devices
similarly when they reported their
findings to Google the infected apps
were removed from Google Play this is
scary stuff
that's it lasted for so long before
being caught well where is it from
I mean the bottom line is like what is
this surveillance app is it right you
mentioned that this is a product that
can be sold to governments for example
or you know who knows what what this use
case is now at least they said it was
only found on hundreds possibly a couple
thousand phones so it wasn't like it was
a mass spread but that's where they even
still that it exists I think it just
points out the fact that okay these
types of exploits can exist so if and I
use the government example if a
government was to want to surveil a
certain group mm-hmm
then could they not use this technology
in order to do it yeah really goes to
show the difference between iOS and the
Android as well as far as the
sophistication in their capabilities as
a company to lock down their devices
whether you like that or not I don't
particularly like the Apple's abilities
right but at the same time in a case
like this the fact that a lot of people
may have this exploit and not hear the
news story yes those people if they're
on iOS are safe because it will not load
on their phone anymore right those
people on Android all that it was
deleted from the store it can't install
it now but if it's already installed
it's still running it's still listening
to their conversations so really shows
that the you know a huge distinction
between the two companies as far as
their how their their control can be
used for good I would hope though that
both Apple and Android would contact
whoever they think has accessed this app
to say you might want to get rid of this
for other people like users yeah because
I mean like if I did yeah who knows
though like that this could be used an
app through say the Google Play Store on
my phone yeah then there's a record of
that so then I should be able to be
contacted through my Google account to
say you've downloaded this app you need
to uninstall
because there's a vulnerability to it so
I would think there should be some sort
of check-and-balance communication
system but yeah maybe not I don't know
yeah and it brings to question though
because I mean this is the gute it was
pulled from the Google Play Store but
there's other Android stores where you
can get apps and so it makes me wonder
was it pulled from that as well or is it
just the Google Play so yeah and I I
just can't help but think of as you're
as you're speaking about this the case
where the FBI was trying to get Apple to
unlock an iPhone right like and so I
just think about that and I think ok so
they're a legitimate entity trying to
get access to
well what if legitimate government
entities are using this type of like
think of the NSA and the exploits and
eternal blue on Microsoft Windows 10
right this is something that came with
if you upgraded to Windows 10 when it
was first released you had an NSA
exploit in your computer nothing's free
so you know so you know so of course
when that was when eternal blue was
discovered it was patched against and
blocked but right up until then
everybody was susceptible so could it
you know if governments are using this
as ways and I only use that example
because it just strikes me as this seems
bigger than just some malware company
not and not in size but in capability
yeah like something that is funded by
something larger than just a hacker
group right yeah especially because it
was funded for the last five years yeah
so and it would have taken a massive
amount of funding to do yeah very
interesting story nonetheless
all right Sony has created a colossal
16k screen which will soon be on display
in Japan Sony's display contains 16
times as many pixels as 4k television
and 64 times as many as a regular 1080p
high-definition TV meaning it can show
images in far more detail than normal
this will let viewers stand close to the
unit which is larger than a bus without
its image looking blurred
one one expert said it would take likely
decades for 16k tech to filter down to
consumer products the 63 foot long by 17
foot high screen is currently being
installed at a new research center that
is built for a Japanese cosmetics group
shishito in the city of Yokohama south
of Tokyo it's so large that it's going
to stretch between the first and second
floors now sony had previously designed
a separate 16k display that went on show
at Tokyo's Haneda Airport in 2014 but
that looked like it was made up by of
dozens of smaller screens rather than
presenting a single seamless picture now
the new supersize installation has in
fact been created over several modular
panels but because they don't have
bezels they can fit together without any
visible gaps to create the impression of
being a single screen the Sony calls the
technology crystal LED which is its
brand name for micro LED display tech
Samsung is also experiencing with the
foreigner experimenting with the format
for now sony is pitching a range of
smaller low resolution crystal LED
displays for use in office lobbies car
showrooms cinemas and theme parks theme
parks since little 16k footage exists
elsewhere the firm has produced its own
film for Shishido showing life-size
animal wildlife the development was
announced by Sony at the National
Association of Broadcasters trade show
which is being held in Las Vegas this
week this is pretty cool
but category 5 TV now in 16k right like
I'm we're used to 4k so to think 16
years 1080p well fern and it looks great
but like 16 that's mind-blowing I think
that the technology jeff has such a
potential for ok first of all yes it's
panels ok so they're they're bezel this
panels no I who cares I mean they've
made it so that it is absolutely
seamless so yeah you can take two panels
and put them up against each other and
seamless as long as they're flush right
they're going to be mounted that way so
now these are portable mm-hmm presumably
so you know you've got panels that can
now be shipped in a spaceship just
saying so okay so you're talking like
space advertising no I'm talking well
that's cool
billboard in space on the moon our first
ever billboard on the moon I wonder what
it would cost again how long you staying
two weeks
okay so take these panels yep to Mars
okay
build them into your home so you've got
a panel that is 17 feet high yeah okay
like a normal ceiling here our ceilings
are quite high at 10 feet 17 feet high
now make that so that it is a natural
landscape of Earth and now all of a
sudden we're doing away and and it's 16k
so I can walk up to it and it's like
looking out a window I would rather just
stay on earth but for those who don't
for those who go to my fair enough like
to have that capability to be able to
basically be looking outside from their
from their living room if you will I
mean eventually we're gonna get there
and when we do want to be amazing to see
more than just the dust clouds well
that's true no but they're portable
panels but you know what I gonna hit
advertising first off guaranteed yes for
sure but I'm thinking like I mean in the
news story talked about theaters like
imagine we did away with projection at
theaters and having this massive panel
who that's 16 I mean like it would
change the theater experience everything
is digital now so right yeah it'll be
neat to hear about the specifications as
far as like ghosting for example is that
still a thing with this is is refresh
rates you know what kind of refresh
rates are we looking at how many Hertz
is it is it flowing out and how those
how many frames per second yeah well
yeah but it's gonna be low
comparatively to to a TV and well I mean
things are is it we're progressively
getting that way yeah I don't know you
know I what I love about tech is that
some things just get bigger and bigger
other things get smaller and see isn't
that weird but it's just it's
interesting it's like well this is the
thing we're gonna go bigger with yeah
you know it's an ebb and flow I think it
really got like really big killer gaming
rigs and now we're into raspberry pies
well it's just the way it's going I
think of you know some of those movies
you know where like they've got an
entire wall that's a TV yeah change what
it looks like and you know I'm thinking
this could become like a standard
feature in your 10 million dollar home
so it's like oh it's got a picture wall
sure
and like quite cool but they can make it
I mean through really well done
cinematography adding depth of field and
and capabilities like that so think
about places like they could build a
museum where you can go back in past in
the past where you can go back in time
or to the future and and see like and
feel like you're in that time because
though oh this do you see what I'm
saying I totally see what you're saying
you see what I feel like just say that
was TECA anything's possible I know it's
just a it's just a really big TV yeah my
dad would be excited about that yeah
he's like all bigger sounds good need a
bigger living room say yeah a
newly-discovered privilege escalation
fly in the Apache web server allows
the underlying OS Apache is the
Internet's most widely used web server
and the vulnerability they just fixed
makes it possible for untrusted users or
software to gain unfettered control of
the machine soft the unfettered control
of the software that the Machine runs on
with the exploit the attacker could do
just about anything the vulnerability
makes it possible for unproven
privileged scripts to overwrite
sensitive parts of the users memory and
therefore a malicious script could
exploit this to gain root privileges the
vulnerability poses the most risk in
web hosting facilities that offer shared
instances in which a single physical
machine serves content for more than one
website typically such servers prevent
an administrator from one on one site
from accessing other sites or or the
sensitive information settings of the
machine itself if one of the users
successfully exploits the vulnerability
they gain full access to the server just
like the administrator at the web host
another risk is that this vulnerability
allows other vulnerabilities to also
gain root an issue that previously had
limited permissions would be able to be
executed as root allowing it to do
absolutely anything with the server the
vulnerability affects only Apache
version 2.4 point 17 to two point four
point three eight when running on
unix-like systems and it's estimated
that around two million servers are
affected people who rely on Apache
particularly customers of hosts that
provide shared instances should ensure
that they're running version two point
four point three point nine two point
four point three nine and I think this
affects people who use shared hosting
greatly yeah so if you are on Linode or
Amazon AWS who are susceptible to this
you need to make sure that you're
running two point four point three nine
yeah I think of how many people have
transitioned like their businesses and
everything to the cloud yeah and how
many how do you know who else is on that
server right yeah so how many other
server
Orlick companies could be on that one
particular server and if they haven't
fixed this vulnerability like your cloud
is now raining on everybody's parade
bottom Bob you only get that kind of
comedy here folks a good time
astronomers have revealed the first ever
image of a black hole that exists in
galaxy called m87 which is 500 million
trillion kilometres away
it measures 40 billion kilometres across
which is 3 million times the size of the
earth and has been described by
scientists as a monster the black hole
was photographer
graphed by a network of eight telescopes
across the world details have been
published today in Astrophysical Journal
Letters professor Heino fell key of ray
bond University in the Netherlands said
what we see is larger than the size of
our entire solar system it has a mass
6.5 billion times that of the Sun and
it's one of the heaviest black holes we
think exists it's an absolute monster
the heavyweight champion of black holes
in the universe there's a tunnel for ya
he says although they're relatively
simple objects black holes raise some of
the most complex questions about the
nature of space and time and ultimately
of our existence he goes on to say it's
remarkable that the image we observe is
so similar to that which we obtain from
our theoretical calculations so far it
looks like Einstein is correct once
again having the first image will enable
researchers to learn more about these
mysterious objects they will be keen to
look for ways in which the black hole
departs from what's expected in physics
though no one really knows how the
bright ring around the hole is created
even more intriguing is the question of
what happens when an object falls into a
black hole professor fell key had the
idea from a project when he was a PhD
student in 1993 at one time no one
thought it was possible but he was the
first to realize that a certain type of
radio emission would be generated close
to and around the black hole which would
be powerful enough to be detected by
telescopes on earth he also recalled
reading a scientific paper from 1973
that suggested that because of their
enormous gravity black holes appear 2.5
times larger than they actually are
these two previously unknown factors
suddenly made the seemingly impossible
possible after arguing this case for 20
years professor fell key persuaded the
European Research Council to fund the
project the National Science Foundation
and agencies in East Asia then joined in
the bank world 2 of the project to the
of more than 40 million pounds no single
telescope is powerful enough to image
the black hole so in the biggest
experiment of its kind
professor Shepard do Elmen of the
harvard-smithsonian Center for
Astrophysics led a project to set up a
network of eight linked telescopes
together they formed the event horizon
telescope and can be thought of as a
planet-sized array of dishes a team of
200 scientists pointed the networked
telescopes towards m87 and scanned its
heart over a period of 10 days the
information they gathered was too much
to be sent across the internet so
instead the data was stored on hundreds
of hard drives that were flown to a
central processing center in Boston US
and Bonn Germany to assemble the
information this is a wild story I love
it because it's tech it's space it's
it's collaborative approaches like it's
everything that just makes technology
fun that they pulled it off too and
proved the theory that we've all you
know just imagined is true right now we
know it is what I what I just can't wrap
my head around though is the size of
this thing like it's bigger than our
solar system that is a massive massive
black hole oh yeah okay and I thought
that you know sinkholes that we find
around here pretty big yeah ii think
that it's bigger than our solar system
yeah the single black hole is bigger
than our solar system it's just
mind-bending I'm not I'm not in physics
whatsoever nor I let alone like
theoretical physics and Wow like it just
blows my mind I can't get my head around
it but being a fan of sci-fi and being
into technology and seeing how they're
using technology to discover these kinds
of things and capture them and be able
to process I mean they're talking about
the capabilities that they have to
create algorithms that will
now take this imaging data and make it
clearer so that it's not quite as fuzzy
as the image that we saw today which is
wild yeah and it's all from radio
transmissions that's nuts
it's crazy it's incredible I know what
it is it's so much fun I want to take a
quick look at our cryptocurrency market
how things look this week so according
to coin gecko this is what the crypto
market looked like as of 1800 hours
Eastern Time on Wednesday April 10th
2019 Bitcoin gained thirty-seven point
five nine US dollars it's at five
thousand two hundred and seventy point
sixty one US dollars
aka 61 cents I can say it however I like
light coin is at eighty three point
three five US dollars etherium is at 175
oh eight losing just a dollar forty six
Manero is at 69 ninety-seven staying
pretty static this week and looking at
the little guys stellite is at one point
six to ten thousandths of a cent and our
guys turtle coin are down zero point
zero seven ten thousandths of a cent
hovering at one point six four ten
thousandths of a cent this week remember
the crypto currency market never closes
and is always volatile big thanks to Roy
W Nash in our community viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight lenox bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Jeff Weston hey I'm Ravi Ferguson
[Music]
[Applause]
