welcome to the coffee break everybody it
is the 30th of April the final day of
April 2020
we got you Joe nice to see you we got
Marsh man in the fishbowl we've got
Peter staring directly into the Sun so
boo EP 9 Robbie and live from the matrix
it's Ron Morissette yes don't
Ron's Becker in there oh boy oh goodness
get that off of the screen there Ron
that's a lady in a red dress I'm slow
today I'm so sorry on slow I'm not
picking a call matrix references all
matrix reference I've got it okay okay
joining us for some reason everybody has
disappeared off my screen I don't know
what you are
we can hear you but you are frozen solid
but luckily you have a glorious smile
and everybody has well typically if
video if videos gonna freeze it's gonna
be when you're like must be what it is
it's all your fault my wrong to your
phone is gonna be filled with matrix
references now tell whether is that that
looks like your actual background it
doesn't look like it made up oh wait
wait wait is that is that all the matrix
is that Molech now ski or is that Agent
Smith
oh man we just can't help ourselves can
we just just can't help ourselves oh I
learned I learned something this week
HDMI connectors don't work are not the
way to do it yeah I remember I told you
you guys I I thought I would give it a
shot because for like a hundred and
fifty bucks each I can get an HDMI
extender and that would allow me to run
Ethernet cable for HDMI 4k from the
cameras in the studio but I thought okay
well what about trying something cheaper
just to see if it works and they got
these little five dollar couplers it's
like a 2-pack for 10 and it did not work
no you get what you pay for with your
people but the idea was that it would
allow you to plug the camera into this
coupler and then that coupler into a 15
foot or 30 foot HDMI cable probably not
bandwidth yeah they're supposed to be 4k
compatible Peter but they definitely
were not so on the screen it was just
all garbled and I just looked like a
mess so so that's not gonna work but the
good news is it gave me a new search
query because I was looking at HDMI
extenders right because that's the only
thing I'm familiar with which converts
it to a so you have a transmitter and a
receiver and then in between you have a
cat6 cable right so they're 150 bucks
each for the cheap ones and this is
because it's 4k not 1080p so you pay a
bit more the little couplers gave me a
new search query which was HDMI repeater
and so I did I used I used that as a
search query on B&amp;H and for 30 bucks
they've got a powered repeater so it's
basically exactly like the coupler plug
one HDMI in here plug another HDMI here
and it acts as an as a repeater
but it's powered and watching between is
that is the
an Ethernet cable a cat5 no pointers it
just no Explo HDMI to HDMI but powered
ok so where where as the five dollar
ones were passive so so I'm hoping that
means it's going to give me the
bandwidth and the signal strength and
they are rated for 4k 60 you know so I
ordered four of them and we'll hope that
they get here fairly quickly because
last night was really tough did you open
up the passive ones to see what was
inside I'm bidding no I'm just while I
click dire yeah no I clicked on the
Return button very quickly but not
before giving it 1 out of 5 stars
I also posted a picture of it oh it came
up on the screen well it but the
question is did you exceed the normal
length or an HDMI cable
oh so it sure worked no the coupler says
that it will do up to 40 meters yeah not
only normal is that normal for HDMI
though if you did not have a couple of
what's the maximum length you could do I
think what I remember hearing years ago
when I started doing 4k was 50 feet is
kind of the end of the line before you
have to power something but I wasn't
even doing feet yeah I think I had two
15 footers so and yet these things were
advatage that 40 meters or something is
it what you said yeah 49 is is a hundred
and twenty feet yeah well yeah I know I
you know how these things are on Amazon
right like it'll say in the description
it's 4k and then in the bottom it'll be
480p like it's literally just why is
running from one type to the other and
nothing else in between but there's such
a with wires there's such terrible wires
that it doesn't even work well yeah can
you believe that day people you know an
air well that's why that's exactly what
I did so that's why I was broadcasting
from my production studio last night
instead of the main studio I couldn't
run the cables into the main studio but
it was like a last-minute dad
because I was going to broadcast from
Studio E and then of course just before
the show is when I was testing
everything and it didn't work so I had
to come up with a solution which was to
put all the keys
put the camera and the the lighting in
my little office and broadcast from
there because the cable then could reach
the server directly without having to
extend it so that's what I did
hey I I did a search for Peters in Oh
set up so I know what that is now
and it it really reminds me are you
familiar with NS is or null soft
installations or system or something
like that
remember null soft the creators of show
shoutcast yeah okay they made shoutcast
and winamp is another popular
application so they created one called
NS is which was the null soft installer
system or something like that and and
it's a win windows installer that was a
scriptable installer system and that
that's what I used to use so back in my
Windows days I usually use something
called a create install it will rush on
their installer it is it's still being
developed 17 years ago or something I
translation and in return he gave me a
lifetime key for the nice yeah yeah and
again the other thing they merged people
then it's buddy I couldn't get to work
on them later
and I also found a problem my audio
interfaces without in shuttle as I told
you crooked and even though this told
you before I'll do better because a
black the may 9 tests
yo get up like it's a good English
oh okay so all this all this time the
audio problems Peter was having is
because the speakers built into the
laptop were no good and so you plugged
in the external speakers and it worked
out
ah here we are looking at it from a
programmatic standpoint say no we don't
know what what how to do it Peter and
that Deeks that's what we do yeah so we
got to back up a little bit retrace our
steps and say did you remember to plug
in the speakers did you try turning it
off and on again is the new --'tis 122
gave to me cuz I'm dealing with
therefore but he did that but I got to
win the plane and we don't have when I'm
salgo given to it but it's pretty good
stuff in it they just told you to
crooked or something on it you know the
curves and all right
a bloody leg speakers with amplifier it
work so well yeah good
glad to hear it so those of you watching
if you have no sound make sure you plug
in your speakers they probably all make
sure the speakers in the laptop actually
work it's funny that you say that Ron
because I've actually had customers who
have said that their computer wasn't
working and then it ended up being that
it wasn't plugged in last night on the
show everybody speakers were out Robbie
during Becca's second segment I still
never figured out what what went on
there the second segment there was no
sound but then when I loaded the file
into DaVinci Resolve afterward there was
sound so when when we were broadcasting
live I thought oh maybe I had
accidentally muted the wrong channel
because I did include those the UFO
videos I included those in the news room
so I thought oh maybe when I muted the
sound on those maybe I accidentally
muted the sound on Beca - but I didn't
so hmm never figured it out but it's
it's good on demand so you can watch the
videos one thing I will tell you Robbie
real quick
even I really don't want to have you
know linger on this but I did find that
watching the live broadcast on the Roku
at least I don't know if anyone else is
using the Roku but you're very jerky on
the it's like the refresh rate on the on
the screen is much lower than it used to
be I heard say fine but Studio II it's
it's I really hope he's not saying that
I was actually coming across as being
jerk no no no no no wow Robby's got a
bad attitude tonight but I did not say
anything because because I did not want
to detract from the show you were having
enough issues yesterday you boy I have
noticed that seat studio a and I thought
it might be something to do with the
feed or so I don't know good to know
I'll try it all right the next week
please do yeah I mean if should to sleep
in any other Roku you'll eat the only
thing with Roku and was studio D was the
lag time but I don't care about lag if I
get good smooth video but it wasn't
buffering or anything like that it was
it was it's literally just old frame
rate you would yeah very slow frame rate
it would it acted like a very low
resolution only every other frame was
coming through or something so it was
the original like I made the comedy yes
it was just like season one you were
dealing with yeah we'll have to do some
testing I know we did have we as in I
had wire cast locked up a few times and
I figured it out
during the first segment so before I had
before I restarted while your cast it
was actually because remember how at the
beginning if you were watching live I
shut off the servers and everything
because I didn't want to ambient noise
yes though Wirecast had a bunch of
assets the
loaded on the server so when I shut down
the server it actually lost access to
those files so so when it was like
stopping it was because it was having
trouble accessing network assets ok ok
so the second time when I reloaded it I
actually removed those assets before
going live if those fans are so loud in
the producers room now yeah
is it generating a bunch of heat as well
I mean the others fans running well
because they have to cool that much so
holding up ok well it's it's it's
notably warmer in the producers room
than in rubbished yeah but it's not
uncomfortable but but yes and no the the
fan on the backup drive is really loud
like it's yeah but it's only got two
hard drives in it and so it seems like
it could probably get away without a fan
but what I've done instead is back April
sixteenth I think it was well I ordered
off Amazon silent fan eighty millimeter
silent fan so I'm gonna replace that
it's just a standard PC okay and you
could treat him so yeah so I'll replace
that that's a quiet things down
could you do something like measure the
temperature in the bulb the main turn
the family will I don't know how a Dell
server handles that so the Dell server
it's like if the fans are automatically
spun up as needed but but in the backup
I'll just replace the fan or I could
even put a I could put a resistor on the
fan and slow it down a little bit
yeah but then you'll then you'll slow
down that airflow as well so the fan
yeah but cooler I was a trooper
absolutely but as I was thinking it's
it's only got two drives in it and it's
just a backup drive so it only were it's
only really doing anything once a day
when the back takes place or when I when
I eject the drive and plug it back in
again it makes you wonder why it's
working so hard that it needs such
you know hard-working say um I don't
think it is I think it's it's just not
PWM it's just it's just a it's spinning
at maximum velocity and it's probably
just a cheap fans Delson noisy the Dells
are - yeah I remember Eric in their 2016
replacing our to use over here and we
were at the data center and they helped
us install the drives and the supporters
I had I used server from them and then
they turn up they had to one of the
drove was bad so one of them drove down
the street to the vendor got a new one
and when the India fisted they shut down
the computer all fear was simultaneous
one I gave you
which I gave you will be that they will
Adam the dog my friends got a they're
foodies go wig and they say by the way
where I was earlier blowies Wiggles
but it was so loud and so much we've
done ever said that I put all the
science and everything then and then you
wonder fishing went book but Apple times
and everything now protected very good
they did very very naughty you got
anyway yeah servers can be super loud
like that like bill said the Dell server
is just like especially when you fire it
up it's all Bowie because soul boo you
know you know soon as you fire that
thing up it's like it's it's silences
itself after a few minutes but it's
still really loud you wanna you wanna
watch the VMS what is it called
vex machine starting up the thing is
recommend to
this particular one was a high
availability unit and we actually would
shut it down unless we really needed it
that you know - two or three jobs ago
because every time it started out there
was a set of a huge set of fans at the
very top of the of the rack so all the
units were step and then these fans
acted as cooling for all of them and so
the moment you cranked it up all four
fans cranked up to full speed and I
wondered if it was going to work like a
drone with the whole thing it was layout
it was like a jet starting you know what
I'd love love love to do would be to buy
like a three or four you chassis and
then like install like a an i7 or
something like that in it and a whole
bunch of SSDs exactly that in 2006 he
placed our first server in a in in you
know data Saturday and it was a full
disk chassis and the next week we go to
the along whether they had used to you
that they could have who you is pretty
thin now so we able to put the cooler in
did you have to give us a wing system
they won't think that we had have to
tweak was the VGA card okay a low
profile yeah it was not a low profile
the court so and we had a friend who
lived there and he take you to idiot
home and he he erect the fastening and
metal thing at the end and he tried it
around
edge of the earth that's VDI chord it's
never again leaving that just these days
one of the most sorry go ahead
are you get annoyed at that they draw
sand and then the only ones of annuities
it's very tighter ones when I go there
that's generally in my job you know is
it when when you a taste guava they kids
know it then but I doubt there any
security do it the well but yeah
Derrick Jake the other than either true
ones but he didn't really grow appoint
you to elaborate a Georgia unfair well
make the the SSDs won't only be quieter
but also a lot cooler I would expect so
now definitely quicker for my server
though it's pretty much only file
storage at other than I do have some
virtual machines running on it I've got
VirtualBox on it but it doesn't really
need a lot of juice though if I had a
more powerful server I think I'd
probably like install my website and
back-end architecture on a virtual
machine I think that's one really nice
so in this thing you wouldn't use an ish
ish day for a hug drugs intensive time
yeah lots of region I would but I would
use a Enterprise SSD hmm for that price
oh the big the biggest difference with
the the enterprise versus the consumer
drives I would say is the how much data
can be written and read from it
before the drive is subject to failure
Enterprise drives also are meant to be
run 24/7 with heavy workload yeah where
as a consumer drive a consumer drive is
meant to be like
powered on and powered off when you're
done and and
not be right into it continually the
game would change someone like is in the
once I gotta cut the thang like takes a
month I couldn't you think mm-hmm
I like to film the lunch well they
wasn't exhausted I think he's asking if
the Kingston SSDs that you push on the
show of the consumer or enterprise well
both if you go onto our website category
five dot TV do a search for Kingston and
I would say what what would be a good
search query just do a search for
Kingston enterprise and you'll see we
talk well we've talked about both but
I've I've had an interview about the
data center the DC for hundreds I
believe so those would be the ones I'd
be put in oh yeah yeah it depends on
your workload it depends on what you're
doing
like in my website I definitely I'd want
to have DC drives for sure in in a data
center as well doing computer program
state yeah yeah Marion I did want to
pick up on one other item that we talked
about yesterday that we didn't get to
finish talking about and that was that
was not a big deal it was this is the is
the conversation I had to cut short and
we're like three minutes to haven't
don't worry about it but I did want to
make a real really important point is
that get like other source control
systems like CVS and like subversion if
you're from
those is a source control or a text
versioning system it's not meant as a
backups solution in yesterday's
conversation some of us and I don't want
to I don't even remember who it was but
somebody said it was a sore back or
something so who was talking about all
your fault made don't don't don't use it
as a backup solution it's because it's
not it's not only for additional safety
measure against typos or accident there
are them and then you also can push if
you have a behavior and create a barrier
so that you you control then you can
also push to that so that you can only
you can only back up to the point where
you last checked in there so if you
don't check in very often and the beds
not very useful to you
it's an ignorance okay so you've got up
to last night's version oh I get it
just don't don't let that be the only
backup because repositories I back them
up I used like I do all my other sure I
think though I think and I called it
Etsy backup but you're right Sol do it's
called Etsy keeper so maybe it's the
perspective is not a backup solution but
more of like soul boo just mentioned if
I screwed up my config I can easily
revert it to it just like my commercials
on my get repository right
I can easily revert a change because if
I'm working on a server I'm probably
using nano or VI where I don't always
have the capability of undoing what I
just screwed up so
I just want to make that point you don't
treat this like a backup solution
because it's not it is not a backup got
it it is a version control use our diff
- backup that's the one I love
check that out if you haven't already
our diff is a tool that is able to check
the difference between files at a bit by
bit level okay our different backup uses
our sink in addition to that so you're
able to run a backup at the bit level so
if you modify a file the backups usage
on the disk is only the size of the
change not the actual file so what do
you what do you end up getting on where
your backup destination is what do you
get you get a full working copy of the
backup that you can access the files
however within that you use our diff
backup is the tool but how do I get the
files back
well there you could just copy and paste
them if you wanted to however using
artifact up with the restore options you
can go back in time to any previous date
okay so you can actually go back to a
week ago or a month ago whatever so the
tool is fantastic it's like time machine
for Linux terminal and the job I had
before I had the computer setup to copy
the this the office files spreadsheets
and so on they're great use case yeah
the only thing you needed and that ran
just fine until they decided
[Laughter]
see you later have a wonderful afternoon
I'm looking forward to tomorrow's coffee
break be here and this one will be up
super quick because of the API so you
watch you watch how come oh wow I just
disappeared look at me be gone oh well I
take it easy everybody had a great
afternoon
