the CES may be flooded with new tech
coming out soon but it's also a great
place for companies to show off things
that they're working on that may not be
coming out to the public Dells doing
just that with its Alienware gaming
family showing off a new concept device
dubbed concept UFO it's a handheld
gaming console that looks similar to a
Nintendo switch but it's built for
full-fledged portable PC gaming the
handheld gaming console sports an 8 inch
display and removable controllers on
both ends sound familiar
due to the inclusion of such a large
display concept UFO is in fact
noticeably larger than a Nintendo switch
and it feels bulkier from what I've been
told the working model arse journalist
Valentina Palladino got to look at ran
Windows and was able to render playable
games in handheld mode docked mode in
which a console was connected to an
external display and it's controllers
were detached and another portable mode
in which the controllers were detached
but connected by a center bridge
[Music]
