covering the week stop text or Linux
bias some of the biggest Call of Duty
overwatch and hearthstone eSports
leagues will be streamed exclusively on
YouTube the deal scene is a big win for
the platform well which has found it
hard to compete with the game streamer
twitch it's part of a deal that the
site's signed with Activision Blizzard
the company which runs the league's
twitch exclusively streamed for the
first two seasons of overwatch league
and is seen as the go-to destination for
live gaming for sure sanyo ryan head of
gaming at google cloud says quote we've
worked closely with Activision Blizzard
for the past few years across mobile
titles to boost its analytics
capabilities and overall player
experience we're excited to now expand
our relationship and help power one of
the largest and most renowned game
developers in the world end quote
despite being the largest video site in
the world YouTube has historically
struggled to compete with sites like
twitch but in the last few months the
platform's been making some high-profile
moves
poaching a number of high profile twitch
streamers as a part of the deal the
search giant's cloud platform will power
all of Activision Blizzard's game
hosting and other technical needs Google
cloud will also host Activision
Blizzard's entire library of games quite
a change in in the landscape of video
game play on online twitch has always
been like that's where you go for your
gameplay well yeah and I mean the fact
that they've now just secured those
three games makes me wonder could this
either force twitch to adapt or put them
under B the end yeah like if YouTube can
start pulling away from twitch and
saying you know we've got this and if
they can show that hey we've done it
better right then other twitch
streamers are gonna go you know what I
can go here now what's interesting that
was it talked about the fact that they
pulled some of the high profile twitch
streamers so I'm wondering if there's a
different compensation rate versus what
you would normally get on YouTube it's a
really weird landscape though because we
can't produce video on YouTube for
children correct and so because of that
the so the games are gonna have to be
adults centric I or at least the the to
be a commentary to be honest with most
of these they already are yeah so so
what we're gonna see so understand what
that means is that okay so the YouTube
game like the the community of gamers on
YouTube is gonna grow into an adult
centric video service right so foul
language probably some not necessarily I
mean yeah necessarily I mean you're
gonna get some of it for sure mm-hmm but
I mean you look at some of those older
youtubers like dantdm who's been around
forever
yeah but how is he doing with YouTube
right now as far as I know he's still
doing videos my kids are watching them
all the time
how are the ads looking i haven't
questioned notice anything I don't know
I'd have to check on on Dan and see how
things are going but to see the thing is
is that as soon as Copic amen
it really impacted streamers who yes
like Dan has always been very sick he's
been very centric on on children and
children's entertainment yes and because
of that that will impact his revenue
because under Coppa he is not allowed to
generate revenue based on children
viewing his stream so he would have to
generate adult centric videos in order
to generate any revenue now I mean at
the end of the day though YouTube isn't
gonna know whether it's me on my phone
watching or my kids on my phone but even
if right regardless of Dan can't take
that risk
no I hear you but I mean how does that
force the content to change because Dan
has to select so we're talking about
dantdm here yeah he has to select when
he creates a video that this is created
for children
that that the content is appealing to
children and if he selects that he is
not allowed to monetize it so whether
it's you or whether it's a child
watching it there are no ads that are
monetizing it for him so he's not me
he's not making any money off of those
videos it just says it's for adults
somebody came into but if a child is
Mithen he's taking a risk because it's
not and they could shut him down very
very quickly right for right okay and
this is a legal issue it'll be
interesting to see with with this switch
then because you're right a lot of the
viewers are teens I mean that I mean
when it comes to teen Plus is okay well
then their fault yeah fine yeah but as
soon as any anyone under 13 is watching
that that has to be selected by the
streamer right and if it is selected by
the streamer we're not allowed to
monetize it so that I mean with a switch
from twitch to youtube I don't think
it's gonna have much of an impact
because all of those games at the end of
the day when you look at the where's the
ERT rating yes but but right now on
Twitch nobody's monitoring Coppa hasn't
cracked down on twitch so those those
streamers are still making money off of
the 10 year olds which I'm not saying
whether I agree or don't agree I'm just
saying that so though that is going to
be a strange shift because in or in
order to monetize they have to
specifically make their programming for
13 plus they cannot create programming
that is appealing to 10 year olds right
to 11 year olds to 12 year olds but the
difference between a 10 year old and a
13 year old not really that that's what
I'm saying that's what I'm saying
ah I guess I'm just viewing it from a
different lens than you listen I can say
I'm gearing it to 13 year olds at a 15
year old watch it so be it no time here
for 13 because their law will crack down
on you with that out of date it's so
weird but but if that's the case I mean
how many kids do you like I mean I
remember getting movies rented that were
18 eh
no sorry are are you like church boy
like I was 14
so like you can't stop well yeah we're
not gonna be able to solve the moment
that cannot account for your crimes yeah
I think this is fine I don't think I
don't think they're gonna notice an
issue I really don't I think you're
gonna be able to stream on YouTube and I
think we'll be fine
we'll see okay the initial put will be
them bring you a streamer driver are you
a game streamer
on Twitch what are your opinions let us
know comment below
[Music]
