welcome to today's coffee break
everybody
nice to see you it's the 29th of March
20 2004 we are hey Liam come in the
frame so they can say huh hello Mia is
my son Liam
he's 9 he's the best yeah I remember I
used to be a nine-year-old for a whole
year
yeah that's amazing well hey nice to see
everybody bill I see bp9 as well I
actually have a computer screen because
I'm at home yay so I can see everybody
hey Doug Anne gwg joining us once again
nice to see it I noticed from the recent
video that the worst is over now it's
just figuring out are you talking about
covert again every time somebody says
something like that of course my mind
immediately ok the studio is great man
let's talk about the studio because that
makes me happy I am literally in the
middle of the of the video so I'm not
yet so I pour 1327 up the truck and you
wish you're just showing us when you
were gonna get coffee to join us for
coffee break yesterday ok and then here
we are
time travel yesterday me predicted
today's me
speaking of data and you stood your lot
in in that video that you just posted do
I see a lake in the far distance in the
new frontages yeah yeah a lake view will
say
Studio II like you yeah for those who
are just joining and maybe haven't been
following the discussion category 5
technology TV has just moved into its
new studio studio II we still have 40 or
45 hours or so left to our Kickstarter
campaign cap 5 TV slash kick and you'll
find out more about that project but so
we're in guys like we've oh sorry
spoiler alert EP 9 yep we did get our
coffee and we did unload the truck so I
picked a bet yeah that was my day
yesterday so boys I am 3:30 this morning
yeah and so I'm doing my best to
motivate myself because I got to get out
the door and get over to studio D we
want to leave it in as good of a state
as possible so we're gonna clear it out
of any trash and give it a good sweep
and mop and do everything like clean the
bathroom get it all you know move-in
ready for the next guy but this you have
to do that today because tomorrow you're
back at work again right it has to be
done today
yeah like you don't have to do it it's
not unlike it's not like you have to
clean the place but when the landlord
goes in on Wednesday morning I want him
to say hey this this was a good tenant
and they really took care of the place
so sure so that's important so yes it is
it's got to happen today because
tomorrow morning I'm right back to work
time and and then the first is going to
be here I guess Wednesday's the first
right so yeah yep yep yep that's it you
know country there is a public toilets
and public restrooms there are often
sites on the walls saying that they
leave the place in the same state that
you might need
oh so do I get to put them all back yeah
the Sun should probably read leave it in
leave it in it in a better condition
than when you saw it yeah in interest
but the bit of wording to use like they
do for national parks and nature areas
and stuff like that leave only memories
and footprints yep lots of those there
yeah but no six years guys like six
years of history for category five
that's that's half of our lifetime it
doesn't even seem that long
yeah I know it's true you're right I
think maybe the renovations make it seem
a little less because it technically
we've only been broadcasting from there
for five and a half because it did take
four five months to to get in because of
the renovations we have to do Verdi yeah
or in this case that a month from start
to finish
yeah of completely and I'm not even like
it's we just moved in yesterday and we
already recorded our first video it was
brilliant previous time you you have to
you had time to actually plan when to do
it yeah it's on our Kickstarter page
I'll look for very good yeah it went up
this morning so so imagine like in that
video just so you know Doug is the
entire day's event so I basically just
pulled out my phone every time anything
was happening so I recorded snippets
throughout the day so it's basically
like a big long extended well 34 minute
vlog that is just clips from throughout
the entire mood so yeah it's it's kind
of neat to have to have that documented
so I love the little dean of the bill
each time you every time you cut I
sometimes cut that out but if people
started talking right away I can't I
can't really cut it out so every time I
push record on my phone is like and you
hear it in the record
I thought I put a lot of work in the one
with chips cording down on the other
side of the road looking like one of the
turkeys I don't yeah perfect yes you had
to say it didn't you you couldn't help
yourself
yeah before I didn't notice that it was
kneeling down I thought it was another
random guy also tried to get pictures
easy mistake
yeah well you've been slaving over the
you know unloading and loading the truck
I've been reading up on the point I'm
been having fun with that on the pine
time Oh awesome
because I used to order one I did manage
to order one fantastic yep I don't know
when it'll be here but it's it was
available I've misread the page it must
have been while I was trying to order
the pine book and envy the paint Book
Pro I should say in the pine cone they
were out of stock for sure but the B
shirt so you can take the picture of
yourself using the pine book I did not
see a t-shirt no I'm joking you need the
whole you need the whole mindset and
whether you write your do it in a room
with you know wood paneling just well
I'll get the electrode in a pine forest
from a memory from a marriage Roy
that'll be fine no prob yeah I think 10
years
self-driving and mobile yeah sure I can
do that I can do that so Robbie what I
learned was that be the way you load a
program into the point time it's very
similar to the Android to the Arduino
have you had a new experience with you
well there's two ways to do it as I as
apparently you could you can what's
called bit bang the one of the ports and
I want to say GPIO but I'm not sure yeah
or I think there's a way you can do it
with I squared C somehow to program it
which might be a bit faster I'm not sure
but as I've got a Raspberry Pi they show
a hardware show that we can use the
Raspberry Pi and they show you the
wiring diagram to connect it up with the
to connect it up with the with the pine
cone time but the idea is that you build
an image and that image is what gets
transferred to the to the pine time
okay so ace yes sir it is okay
absolutely so it's it's it it does not
run Linux it is it is an embedded
processor basically much like as I say
the Arduino and we know you only get to
run one program so as I as I read it it
looks like you build one program slash
image a hex image right or a binary
image that's what you send to that's
what you send to the phone tone and
that's what it runs so whatever
functionality you want to integrate has
to be all in that one program I think
really reminds me that that sounds like
the like early days of like hacking I
had an old Casio watch the UK and a
similar
so you create the image and then flash
it onto the wrong yeah well what kind of
storage does the fine time man it has 64
K yeah okay so we are going back aways
saying the same as this right which I
showed you yesterday although this has
32 K of ROM whereas the plane time has
64 K of ROM which is the wait wait
that's the memory that's the memory for
programs I believe there's no relational
yes no there's an additional 512 K for
program storage like data and data yeah
okay but the OS that a like the the
actual edge that drives the thing has to
be inside 64 64 which I guess like it's
a watch right so yeah it's gonna have
clock face it may be a couple of apps
that's gonna be my first one actually th
to put a patient clock face on it I
don't love that's slower 20th century
that's the first step I'm gonna do and I
think if I understand this correctly
I mean zero there are ways to do this
fear bones so no you don't use our tos
or anything like that
you yet eventually start from C and you
build it just like you do in our do we
know now Bo you mentioned rust at any
times I don't know that I'm going to do
this in rust because I'm not familiar
with it I'm Way more familiar with C
than I am with rust so I will most
likely just write this thing in C and
just see what I can do with it no pun
intended I whisper I wish I had more
knowledge and C I think though as a PHP
developer I have a pretty good
understanding of the syntax mm-hmm
because it's it's quite similar from
what I've seen but I've never really
gotten into that type of programming
unfortunately I love to oh oh oh yeah
I've done lots of
what's up C and Java and and of course
COBOL which is what I'm doing now but
why it's interesting about like the
whole like everything that's going on
right now when it comes to single board
computers maker technology STEM
education yeah
nine-time now is it's like like gwg said
it's like this is so the technology is
so like when we were growing on leggins
it's like it's like it's been recycled
but it's better it's better but it's
come full circle so now because we had
an I would say maybe a 15-20 year gap
where there was no maker tech everything
was like what you see is what you get
here's the interface we give you the
interface you don't mess with that
you know Windows Mac was an iOS and
everything else was like this is
presented to you as is and that's how
you use it but now it's going full
circle back to the when we were growing
up where it was like we get to design it
we get to figure out how it works and we
get to flash the the innards and make
the OS and do everything else
I showed you the model 100 that started
even that far back right because I also
have a que pro 2x a CPM machine which
still runs but you had a little more
flexibility in terms of what you could
do with with that machine you still had
the constraints of the CPM but if you
wanted to you could completely replace
the the OS you could even replace the
wrong if you wanted to but you're still
within the constraints of the hardware
yes that's given to you before then you
had I guess like the s 100 or something
like that that you literally had like
your compute board you had the black the
backbone and you literally plugged in
yeah compute boards just like you did
with the s100 way back wing yeah
oh my god I'm old I just feel like it's
exciting because like we we just had
such a time of people didn't people that
grew up in the 80's 90's didn't
necessarily 80s we still
that's a pretty good maker tech but
definitely 90s into the 2000s it feels
like they didn't understand the
technology itself like most of my
customers if you move the icons on their
desktop they they don't know how to
offer get they don't know how to open
the Internet yeah yeah yeah yeah because
it because it's it's it's presented to
them I guess I guess the audio doesn't
work oh no she dara when she does zoom
video zoom meetings with work her phone
for some reason doesn't allow gallery
view
so yeah they speak they think the
picture switches all the time and I'm
like that's it the gallery view that's
exactly what I said yesterday when I was
at the studio because I didn't have a
computer bill because my phone does that
so I actually so today it's different
because I have it open on my computer -
yeah so that's how I'm able to do that
oh yeah but you do yeah that's right so
you'd have to make a noise like clap
your hands yeah so that it switches to
your camera but the thing is is other
people they you have to learn a
different social skill for these types
of meetings so when someone's speaking
and you're face to face you kind of
uh-huh yes I see you can't talk on these
types of things could you switch no
right yeah listen listen learn don't
remember not to do that anymore Bill gwg
seems to have a different a different
technique and he keeps muting his
microphone when he's not speaking which
i think is clef that's that's another
well that's just polite
exactly you don't want feedback or echo
or anything if you're not talking a few
times I thought I was fun muted muted in
vice-versa that reminds me of in 93 yeah
four full year I was in the local radio
station
at my old church at the church secretary
one time had to it became that one time
she had to do two hours over radio
because the one doing it you say he had
to go drive somewhere a few hours for
anything and everything that you can do
wrong on radio she did back then we have
these old tapes tape drives with you
have to others and and everything that
was supposed to be on the air was off
and vice versa so when she was say
playing music then this is the music did
not go on the air but her microphone did
and then the she even was supposed to be
on air it was the opposite so for free
to ourself cueing and editing tracks
yeah that's every DJ's nightmare right
there yeah Oh somebody reverse the cue
pot with the master pot yeah yeah she
managed to do that if you have to this
day no one has has any idea how she
managed to do that one of the reasons I
love having isolated audio recording now
at Studio if I mess everything up on air
it doesn't matter because I've got the
ISO tracks I can fix it in post
so that's how you were able to fix buzz
live keyboard at the you know a few a
few videos ago commenting the coffee
break I don't use ISO tracks but a
degree five tech TV I do but coffee
break I rent I do run through auphonic
you run more phone a phonic so let's do
a quick search on our website there's a
good review of it okay you pH oh and I
see but it's like a audio processor so
it makes it enhances the audio and
reduces some noises and increases others
and brings out voices from the track
yeah so that's why when you watch the
coffee break on demand you'll notice
that all of our microphones even though
when we're live it's you know some
people are quiet or some people are
louder if it fixes all that yeah very
much science that I was planning to show
you yesterday but I didn't find it
and this morning I remembered oh I have
one box tucked away in another look
inside Zella I thought it was a game and
watch oh my goodness
Liam come see this can you make a noise
for me Oh an actual game and watch yeah
um free Nintendo so that was what
created the Nintendo yeah it's from 1988
85 I've had it I've had this one for you
and I understand like if that didn't
happen if that guy wasn't such a pushy
salesman it Nintendo might not have
happened
wow that's awesome
let's do on it yeah yeah and that I used
to have one of the clones and I had that
one
it was breaking breaking out of prison
it was a searchlight to going all around
and you have to avoid the searchlight
and you have to avoid to God rooms and
then you have to evoke to to their
friends and then the first one had to
not a hole in the fence and then escape
and
yeah I think I had my all-time high was
almost five five five hundred points and
I did that and I mean closing there
passing four hundred points there
Searchlight was really going fast I had
that for three or four years and then we
moved and I haven't seen it since if I
recall correctly I think Game &amp; Watch
was a device out of Japan that Nintendo
didn't they didn't create Nintendo
already existed but Nintendo would have
folded if game and watch the guy who was
selling Game and Watch came to them and
said please carry this so they've
slapped their name on it and it became a
Nintendo product and made Nintendo but
what they became I guess gaming okay so
whoever said think convert to a watch
[Laughter]
does it have a clock at least there you
go down there we can't we can't see what
you're working on because your mic isn't
on see this yeah this is my gaming
system ice case this is a little one I
built three of these this is the little
one there's a medium sized one that I
built because my nephew's were fighting
over the fact there's only one
controller on this thing and then there
is the full-size arcade cabinet that I
built for a friend after they saw the
other two sweet Liam wants to show you
guys his retro gaming console that's the
act games this is the Sega Genesis do
you want to put on like Sonic show them
how cool it is yeah it's got like 2000s
decade games on it I was hoping to get
one of those new Oh droids but I gather
its back borders
up to the camera oh he's got sonic
running free of you guys copyright
infringement right here bro boy you guys
see that yeah it's really hard to see on
camera yeah
it's actually these things are awesome
that's cool
nice bike those things are awesome it
takes an SD card so you can pop a rom on
it
well guys and the kk said people that
didn't see that there this one is the
tropical fish is the game on this one
nice guys I'm gonna head over to Studio
C and get started on cleanup so thanks
for joining me for the coffee break
today and I look forward to seeing thank
you and I'm sure my wife wouldn't mind
if I did a little tidy on Studio C as
well that's it this is actually Studio C
you see it to clean out studio D exactly
after you get some rest yeah eventually
whatever studio a number I'm calling
this I've been cleaning it ever since
I've been stuck here I have a lot of
junk to go through this thing and let's
see what else
stackable tablets oh yeah stack of old
laptops yeah I got to do the same at
Studio e cuz we just don't have the
storage to be able to hold stuff so and
I have to flip stuff when I review it I
got to get rid of it and when I review
it I got to get rid of it so it's gonna
have to be like that so it's gonna be
awesome
take care everybody I'll see you
tomorrow see you later
take care
