here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom the videogame cloud
streaming industry is getting shaken up
as NVIDIA loses more big names and
Microsoft readies its market killer
Netflix has released its first quarter
fiscal year results for 2020 and
revealed some unusual coronavirus
impacts Microsoft answers once and for
all should there be one or two spaces
after a period Apple is preparing to
develop its own processors for Mac
computers to be rolled out as early as
next year drones will be used to carry
medical supplies to the Isle of Wight
and the Pentagon says the video of UFOs
that were leaked in 2017 are real stick
around the full details and this week's
crypto corner are coming up this is the
category 5 TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
Linux bias
from the newsroom climb back to Ferguson
the success of a video game cloud
streaming service is all based on
content where you can and can't get your
favorite games the industry is getting a
shakedown as Nvidia's GeForce game
streaming service has lost four game
big-name game publishers with Xbox game
studios Warner Bros Codemasters and clay
Entertainment pulling their titles by
the end of the week this comes as
Microsoft prepares to launch its own
game streaming service project X cloud
and high ending streaming's company
blade launches a lower priced version of
its shadow streaming service with
competitors PlayStation now in Google
stadia also chasing streaming customers
and Apple pushing its walled garden game
system the market is entering a new era
of competition similar to the movie and
TV streaming market a few years ago the
loss of Xbox and Warner Bros is
significant yet buried in an
announcement that Nvidia had signed up
to be soft whose titles include
Assassin's Creed far cry and the Tom
Clancy series for g-force it painted the
changes as an opportunity to refine our
library and stress that 30 of the top 40
most played games on Steam already
stream on GeForce now gamers pay Nvidia
$5.00 a month
for now to run games they have already
bought at a far higher performance level
and speed than their devices can manage
and video runs its own copies of the
games on its high-end servers takes
input from people's controllers
processes it and then streams video back
to the user
while they may seem like overkill it
means ordinary gamers can compete with
those on high-end gaming machines which
cost thousands of dollars with even a
microseconds a difference between
winning and losing it is something many
are prepared to pay for but as with TV
and movie streaming services content is
everything and so there is a tussle
going on between game developers and
operators of streaming services Google
launched its stadia service with plenty
of fanfare a year ago but has so far
disappointed gamers because of its
limited selection of games and
compatibility issues it does offer the
best resolution at 4k and charges $10 a
month though we as
lastly you can sign up for a pro account
right now to receive it for free for two
months PlayStation now requires you to
have a PlayStation and works only with
games that run on the platform although
they are pretty extensive and also cost
$10 a month shadow offers a higher end
service that costs $25 a month and from
next month will offer a lower cost but
lower powered $12 a month option as for
Microsoft's upcoming project X cloud
service due to launch any time soon it
won't require users to own an Xbox and
pricing has yet to be announced
having released its first quarter fiscal
year results for 2020 Netflix Netflix
has revealed some unusual coronavirus
impacts made most plain in its Form 10-q
Netflix said the Cova 19 pandemic has
also led to an increase in our net paid
membership additions relative to our
quarterly forecast and historic trends
indeed the company reported fifteen
point five million new subscribers in
the quarter for a total of a hundred and
eighty two point 86 million almost
double recent quarters of subscription
growth but the filling mourns the surge
may not be indicative of results for
future periods CEO Reed Hastings letter
to shareholders opens with in our
20-plus year history we have never seen
a future more uncertain or unsettling
and goes on to explain that onboarding a
rush of new users has actually damaged
Netflix average revenue per user the CEO
also explained that the pandemic will
impact the streamers pipeline of new
shows because most film crews worldwide
have had to stop working although
animators were quickly back at work and
writers mostly just kept writing revenue
for the quarter was us five point seven
seven billion dollars in operating
income hit nine hundred and fifty eight
million both the best results the
company has achieved in recent history
and that's after taking into account the
strength of the US dollar which reduces
the value of subscriptions in other
nations Hastings also wrote that Netflix
investment in cash eases systems appears
to have paid off both in terms of user
experience and letting it respond to the
government requests to reduce his impact
on networks
company has also blogged about its
introduction of support for TLS 1.3
which means it can do a full handshake
with a device with one round-trip or
sometimes without a roundtrip at all
that translates into faster stars for
streams and less traffic on networks
subscribers ought not to expect more new
features at this time
Hastings letter added that while Netflix
Netflix devs are now working from home
and that transition has gone well they
have temporarily reduced the number of
product innovations while continuing
continuing to release features they
believe will add meaningful value for
members such as improved parental
controls with the advent of word
processors we saw a great debate take
shape should you enter a single space or
a double space after a period the double
space was a holdover from the days of
the typewriter and even now some people
still do it if you're one of them you
might want to prepare yourself for a
certain update that's on the way to
Microsoft Word Microsoft has decided to
drop the mic siding with those who
prefer a single space as test builds of
Microsoft Word now treat a double space
after a period as a typo when you allow
the word processor to correct the error
it'll change it to a single space
automatically according to the verge
while this feature is only in testing
for now it won't be long before it rolls
out to the entire word using audience on
desktop the good news however is that
you won't be stuck forever looking at
those error lines underneath your double
spaces if you don't want to in a
statement to the verge Microsoft's
partner director of program management
Kirk Gregerson said that the double
spaces of the world of sorry the double
spaces of the world the double spaces of
the world will be able to ignore the
error flag and continue overusing their
space bar if they so choose
Gregerson said as the crux of the great
spacing debate we know this is a
stylistic choice that may not be a
preference for all writers which is why
we continue to test with users and
enable these suggestions to be easily
accepted ignored or flat-out dismissed
we wanted to know how the free
alternative Libre Office was leaning in
a libre office community forum user
shankha plaza calls to spaces needless
extra
work saying if you had to take two
breaths for everyone it'd be a tad
laboring no and designer and typographer
Hank Sameer HOF says in any part of the
European mainland mainland it was never
done or abandoned over fifty years ago
double spaces will come back to bite you
in some form as it turns out libre
office already defaults to to change
double spaces into single spaces and has
for the past several versions at least
though as p area of sim Samian points
out it can be changed in the tools
autocorrect autocorrect options menu on
the options tab by checking on ignore
double spaces so there you have it
Microsoft isn't quite pushing out the
double spaces yet but they're following
Libre offices lead and it feels like a
big win for the single spacers expect to
see this feature land in Microsoft Word
in the months ahead we've got to take a
quick break the crypto corner and more
of this week's top tech news stories are
coming up so don't go anywhere
[Music]
oh come back little cryptic Oh No
hope you all well and staying safe and
also hope that last week's corner was of
used to you where we spoke about jobs
and the big opportunities in the
blockchain industry in regards to
programming and coding I forgot to
mention one website which I used to
learn Python which is called hacker rank
com that's a che c'Ã¨ k ER ra a and k
dot-com which gives you every day little
task to achieve and that's how I learned
quite nicely to learn in in Python and
it's free so give it a try another thing
that I'd like to mention is it's
currently tax season and I encourage you
to take care of those taxes because
local authorities around the world are
starting to work together with local
exchanges and so they will have most
likely your details already mine regards
how many cryptos you have and so on
there are plenty of websites that you
can use and most and they're very very
good in price also so there it's fairly
cheap to use them and they are clever in
the sense that they also give you advice
when to add I want to change the
position which occurred two currencies
in regards to save taxes so make use of
those websites they will be of use to
you later on to the news market cap of
our industry has not really changed
substantially since last week we're
hovering around 225 billion US dollars
with Bitcoin and having a market share
of 64% big dates that are coming up soon
in shellye which is from Cardno a new
development which focuses on
decentralization has been started this
week so they mined the first Genesis
block this week but just you
it's not yet open for the public and for
their saying it will be open for the
public in May or June but that's an
important development for Caetano for
you theorem they're saying that then you
theorem 2.0 will come in July remains to
be seen because they have changed today
it's already many times but that's what
they're currently saying and then the
big one is Bitcoin havening which is
coming in around two weeks now a lot of
people are saying that it will have a
big impact on prices others are saying
that it would have no impact on prices
the history is telling us that it will
not have a big impact on prices
immediately that comes at a later stage
but to explain what haven't happening
means is currently every ten minutes
around every ten minutes
Bitcoin issues twelve and a half Bitcoin
the Bitcoin blockchain ish is 12 and 1/2
Bitcoin to the miners and that will be
half so from a male or two weeks onwards
for the next four years - will receive
only six point two five Bitcoin every
ten minutes so the inflation of the
Bitcoin blockchain will be reduced by by
half and that's why it's called havening
other news it's in regards to defy so
this underlined for decentralized
finance which is to explain centralized
finance is C Phi which is banks where
you have got a middle person where
you've got a company that you can call
to to talk to somebody
D Phi is just based on mathematics and
codes then that's getting very popular
it's really interesting so if you have
got some time go into D Phi of any
cryptocurrency the development has been
tremendous it's still in test phase so
don't invest any money there or any
substantial money but it's interesting
and BitFenix which is the owner or the
sister company of tether which is a
stable coin they developed a token which
is called the P token which makes it
possible to exchange funds between
or assets between two - this
decentralized exchanges or exchanges
that is coming which is an interesting
development
then coinbase launch source and Oracle
why is what it was in Oracle is tool
that tells you a specific value at a
specific time for example the price of
Bitcoin as you know there are probably
over four hundred five hundred exchanges
that are trading in in Bitcoin and they
all have a different price I mean it's a
minimal difference but what happens if
there's a crash and the difference
between those exchanges will be
substantial and that is of importance
for for example these defy platforms
which price should they use if they have
to liquidate a position and for that
their differently developing Oracle's
and coinbase just launched a price
Oracle and that will be life or it's
already life and next is the auto
foundation took a decision to change
smart contracts idea they initially had
that and the base layer and they chew
moving that now to layer to layer to
fund a solution so it's like the
lightning network to Bitcoin it's not
part of the base cryptocurrency it's a
level higher so that is a decision that
they took let's see if that comes
because it's not the first time that
they changed that and yeah that's that's
it for me so I wish you a great week
we'll see I hope to see you next week
and with this back to the studio
thank you Robert just a reminder that
we're not providing financial advice but
only sharing what's happening in the
cryptocurrency market always remember
that the crypto currency markets are
ever-changing
and always volatile so you should only
spend what you can afford to lose now
back to Becca in the newsroom
Thank You Robbie until now Apple has
been using Intel processors but
according to a Bloomberg report the
company is now preparing to develop its
own processors for Mac computers which
could be ruled out as early as next year
Apple is said to be working on three
different processors that are based on
the a14 chip that will power the next
iPhone according to the report the first
of these new Apple made chips is
expected to be much faster than that of
an iPhones and will arrive in a new
computer next year and taking this step
Apple is likely to be slowly moving
towards ditching its dependence on Intel
chips altogether Apple's partner for
iPhone and iPad processors Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co will
develop the new mac chips the components
will be based on the 5 nanometer
production technique the same sized
apples used in the next iPhones and iPad
pros details are thin at the moment but
will be a wheels sure be able to let you
know more as the specifications are
announced the UK government has
announced that drones will be used to
carry medical supplies from Hampshire to
the Isle of Wight a planned trial of the
technology began this week in March the
government announced funding for drone
tests and a new air traffic control
system but Grant Shapps Secretary of
State for Transport said there was an
urgent need for the trial to begin
sooner than planned ferry crossings to
the Isle of Wight are currently reduced
due to the spread of Cova 19 an unmanned
aerial vehicle can make the crossing to
the Isle of Wight in about 10 minutes
the government expects about four
flights per day to be made depending on
the needs of the United Kingdom National
Health Service a spokeswoman told the
BBC that the first flights would carry
personal protective equipment however in
future the drone could deliver the time
critical supplies such as blood and
organs the trial will use a
gasoline-fueled wind racers ultra
fixed-wing drone capable of carrying a
hundred kilogram payload for up to a
thousand kilometres the Department for
Transport said the drone would fly
autonomously along a fixed route between
Lyon the Solent and Hampshire and
Binstead on the Isle of Wight to safety
pilots one at each airfield will oversee
each flight
a spokeswoman told the BBC that the
flight would take around 10 minutes
significantly reducing derivative every
times between the Isle of Wight and
mainland after goods have been dropped
off at the airfield they will be
delivered to st. Mary's Hospital on the
Isle of Wight by Road because this is
all happening so happening so quickly an
unmanned traffic management system
cannot be put in place in time though it
will be pursued for the long term so for
now rather than integrating the drone
with regular air traffic a temporary
danger area is being set up for 90 days
to separate the drone from other
aircraft the Pentagon says that can
explain three previously leaked videos
of supposed UFOs and the explanation is
simple they are real and there's still a
total mystery the US government
Declassified three top-secret videos of
unexplained aerial phenomena on Monday
confirming that clips that first
surfaced in 2017 are legitimate that's
not to say that the UFOs are not of this
world but that the Pentagon is unable to
identify the objects seen flying in the
videos word wizards are making the
connection unidentified flying objects
UFOs the US Navy has officially released
the footage
antek on spokesperson sue gal said on
Monday but this is to clear up any
misconceptions by the public on whether
or not the footage that has been
circulating was real or whether or not
there is more to the videos she said
after a thorough review the department
has determined that the authorized
release of these unclassified videos
does not reveal any sensitive
capabilities or systems and does not
impinge on any subsequent investigations
of military airspace incursions by
unidentified aerial phenomena in other
words the objects are not theirs the
announcements the announcement is more
of indication for Tom DeLonge the
blink-182 band member and alien
enthusiasts who release the videos to
the New York Times in 2017 through his
UFO research organization to the Stars
Academy of Arts and Science while the US
Navy didn't acknowledge the videos when
they first serviced in 2020 2017 Joe
grand asure spokesperson for the Deputy
Chief of Naval Operations for
information warfare confirmed they are
real in an interview with CNN
September saying the Navy designates the
objects contained in these videos as on
a hood I unidentified aerial phenomenon
new ApS grad grad assure said at the
time that transparency around the
sightings was important so that pilots
won't feel ashamed to report something
that could be dangerous for many years
our aviators didn't report these
incursions because of the stigma
attached to previous technology and
theories about what may or may not be in
those videos all three videos are now
available through the Pentagon's Reading
Room the Pentagon did not release any
additional footage or content along with
the three clips but it has stoked a
flurry of excitement among UFO
enthusiasts with its simple
acknowledgement that the videos are
legitimate the truth is out there
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at patreon.com slash
category-five a category-5 TV newsroom
I'm Becca
