it's so nice to have you here welcome to
category five technology TV we've got
this network switch completely dead
yeah found that out last week yeah but
we took it apart and we think that we
may have been what's wrong with it how
do you think my mad soldering skills
might be able to repair it for us this
week of course I have full confidence in
you
I ordered the capacitors and this week
we're getting taken attempt and see if
we get a fire up and we've got a great
show planned for you soon hey it's
always a great show Sasha Jeff are here
I'm here and you are here so you know
it's gonna be good cigarette
this is category five technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only two
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash iai be welcome to the show
everybody it's episode 604 of category 5
technology TV nice to see you just
before the show we were talking about oh
I hope the discord doesn't freeze up
this way yes we were high yeah it has
been an issue you see that over there
right beyond just right over past you
Jeff Oh got this yeah this yeah yeah
okay yes okay yeah there she is yeah I
would not do well on a game show it's an
amazing thing I mean it is powered by
Titan embeds comm and I absolutely
recommend that you check them out but
what happens is because we broadcast for
a full well we we broadcast for an hour
but it usually takes about a two hour
window to put everything together here
in the studio so if you're watching live
so by that
time like the I don't know what it is
but like buffers like queue up and
freeze up and and things like that so if
I'm not actively watching this screen
over here well discord will lock up
discord is our chat it's a great way for
you to be able to interact with us you
can get on over to our website category
five dot TV click on interact you'll see
the discord chat it's also interested in
the interestingly enough it's connected
to our IRC channel as well yes I created
an IRC bridge and that allows you to
chat on IRC in our discord channel and
then you're going to appear over here as
well
right it's cool but it does tend to lock
up once in a while so you ready yeah
okay you know that I I developed NEMS
Linux yes yes what does that mean well I
have a little bit of experience working
with raspberry PI's pine sixty-four all
the single boards oh oh yeah all the
single board computers all of them
there's not one that I don't play with
tinker with so I feel like this is an
SBC solution so I've been working with
Enderdragon the developer of Titan
embeds calm okay and connecting with
them directly and have actually created
well we know Titan embeds yeah
now what have I created a Titan and nems
nananana yeah almost your clothes your
your your eyes there Titan them's those
who are in discord right now see a new
bot this I mean do we see them Oh
type type PI Titan PI right here in the
studio we have a Raspberry Pi micro
computer running Titan embeds okay the
very software that powers Titan embeds
comm is now ported to a Raspberry Pi
microcomputer really cool so we now have
what's called Titan pi and tonight is
basically I maybe I should have waited
until because I just finished developing
this this small thing oh my goodness so
this is like
Inaugural well because it's something
that we've really needed and you know if
we're on a wireless internet connection
here we broadcast a lot of bandwidth
through the live show so there's quite a
potential for it to buffer and then what
happens to Titan is it locks up or at
least that's how it appears to the
viewers because it's it's basically a
website a web service that if it loses
its connectivity it will just freeze
right right it's like it's like a socket
connection if you will having the the
Titan PI right here in the studio
theoretically right means that we
shouldn't have that issue anymore so
I've had it running all afternoon and we
see
g-dog 1985 yeah I see
uber ABBA we see marsh man and we see
all of the folks having a chat there in
the in the in the discord or in the chat
room you see how fantastic is that
that's great so this is like something
they've never done before correct and so
you have now done this for them with
them high-five so Titan embeds calm
you've got to check out their service if
you are a discord fan if you're a
streamer if you have a website and you
want to embed your website's discord for
example within your actual website in
such a way that it looks really great
like do you notice how branded that
looks there's no there's no extra stuff
it's it's clean yes because that's all
part of Titan well you can use Titan
embeds calm or now as we work toward
this so this is like the ultimate test
is putting it on the air on a live
broadcast that has you know well 20 plus
thousand subscribers on YouTube as of
this week Wow welcome to Linux tech show
comm and plus we've got another 10,000
subscribers nearly on category five
technology TV online on YouTube so we're
looking 30,000 subscribers on YouTube
watching right now
that's awesome the ultimate test of
Titan pie so what's gonna happen is is
that if this goes really well tonight
our little Raspberry Pi microcomputer
discord embedding server from Titan
embeds calm mm-hmm if it goes well just
gonna release it for free so what's
broken how can we fix it
what's great how can we make it better
how can we make it better Garrett we've
got to give big kudos I mean you hear me
saying Titan embeds calm and Enderdragon
and air end and dragon I should say fact
is is that they released the source code
publicly for this amazing embedding
system that they have for discord I
don't can go download it off of github
if you want now it takes a little bit of
it takes a little bit of technical
know-how to make it work right and and
dragon really helped me to get it up and
going and now that I've got it up and
going on what what is basically uh nems
what we call a linux base mm-hmm so it's
Debian Buster on a Raspberry Pi it's now
super easy to set up right so now that
you've done this alright and it's going
work yeah so are you going to do like a
feature on it oh sure yeah just to show
everybody else how it's done yeah of
course all right we'll make it
downloadable first it's like an image
file right it starts with the Raspberry
Pi because it's really the ultimate test
can it work on a Raspberry Pi can I get
a yes I you know as you're talking about
all these things are you improving I
just I kind of look at you and I think
what a nerd you're like you're like the
modern-day Rick Moranis from Honey I
Shrunk the Kids oh oh like I love that I
love that movie because like he's got a
soul a tech solution for everything and
I feel yeah that's you you're like oh I
don't like the way this works I gotta
make this better did you just do it and
it's like I don't know how to make
myself breakfast some days I solved the
world's problems okay so let's back up a
little bit NamUs linux is a very
successful
distribution for Raspberry Pi for pine
sixty-four for all the different Odroid
and all the different all the different
single board computers and with that
I've released what's called the the
Linux Debian base so the base is
available for free on my blog so now the
base is now going to power Titan Pi
excellent
so yeah and we'll see how it works it
may freeze up tonight we may have to
restart it a couple times I don't know
well we'll see yeah but fact is is that
it's gonna be available anyways exactly
I have full faith it's not gonna freeze
okay thank you Sasha I think it's frozen
it is frozen yeah
Jeff just posted something it's all good
well that was anticlimactic
we'll see what exactly this is kind of
the fun of open source too is that we're
gonna figure out maybe what was causing
exactly embeds to freeze up and we'll
fix it and then we'll do what's called a
a pull request and the pull request will
then be added to actual like Titan
embeds comm and it'll help other people
as well that's the whole like the glory
of open source it's wonderful I like it
we've got a lot of fun for you tonight
now we're going to be looking at the
soldering job that I started last week
you notice that I'm resting my hands on
this on this switch just a quick mention
the company that I worked for actually
was just awarded assets' MVP partner of
the year nice for the entire country of
Canada well done check out endpoint
security dot CA it's interesting because
they've actually launched what's called
the endpoint security dot CA podcast and
it's a it's a exceptional podcast it's
professionally written it's
professionally put together and they
decided to use the balled nerd as
the host so it's a lot of fun but you
get to learn about cybersecurity issues
that are affecting businesses and and
the focus is on Canadian business but
realistically it's and yet the u.s.
wherever you are in the world I mean
it's the same things that we're facing
we were talking about the GDP are just a
couple of episodes ago but it's a it's a
commercially produced show that is
available on endpoint security CA and
they just won the partner of the year
for ESET so that's a huge international
company so it's a it's quite an honor
and those of you who follow it you'll
also see that we received a trophy and
yeah yeah I'm like all about trophies
it's pretty yeah we're gonna need a
trophy wall we're gonna need a trophy
wall here absolutely and then someone's
got to start sending us trophies well
you know I'm sure we can I have an Oscar
at home do you yeah oh yes right but
close enough Oscar vote how does it grow
that was brilliant we do have to take a
really quick break when we come back I'm
gonna jump over to our soldering station
and we're gonna see if we can actually
make this thing go stick around
[Music]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts welcome back this is
category five technology TV it's episode
number six so for now we were checking
just before the break and you see that
discord is now tighten pi is now
refreshed yes
so what's interesting there is that it
now has pointed us to what is
potentially the issue not necessarily
tighten itself locking up but in fact
wire casts web embedding is a locking up
so it's it really now that we've got a
local server it points us to okay now
we've got a new test bed now we've got
something else that we can try with and
we can realize that oh this is actually
maybe a Telestream Wirecast issue so
there are a couple of ways that I can
get around this one is to set up a
second Raspberry Pi computer or other
single board computer and set it up with
a head so HDMI output with chrome loaded
and then actually use that as a capture
source for Telestream Wirecast
because then it's not going to be
affected so keep in mind what I'm doing
is I'm actually linking Telestream
Wirecast to the URL the website address
of the Titan embed server or in this
case now this week Titan PI right but
what we have proved is that Titan PI
running on a Raspberry Pi microcomputer
works exactly like you would expect yes
you can see it just beyond Jeff there
now is it possible that if it is the
Telestream issue yes if you were to go
back to the disk or to the to the Titan
discord service what it then works so
it's not maybe you don't necessarily
need the PI or does the PI fix part of
the problem what the PI does for us so
here's so unrelated to discord freezing
mm-hmm that seems to be a Wirecast issue
which were never seen before we've never
been able to detect that before because
I've always been Titan embeds calm right
now that we've got a local server we can
see oh this is actually not titanum bets
comm locking up it's this is Telestream
Wirecast law
right so would it make a difference to
use our local server versus Titan embeds
the only difference that that would make
Jeff is that if the internet were to go
down or to have a problem here during a
live broadcast which has never happened
since we've upgraded to correct a better
internet service here at the studio but
if it ever happened our tight our
tightened server would still be
displayed over there now if it was using
the external Titan embeds comm maybe
because the internet would be down it
might cause like an error a crash of
some sort that's internal here at least
it would just say can't connect and
can't get new messages or and then all
of a sudden internet connection comes
back and boom there's the new messages
alright possible that that would make a
difference wait what do you know we're
troubleshooting live on the air well and
that's a big part of what category 5 is
because it's all about kind of what did
I say it's ramshackle in a lot of ways I
mean we're looking tonight at how to
make an old network switch work right
talk about ramshackle well and oddly
enough I mean the whole figuring out
things live on the air I can't I think
back to when you first did soldering and
how much of a debacle that was come on
it was a thing of beauty but because you
got right out it was amazing what
because of the community going well what
about this and did you have enough flux
exact sit on the spot that's why it's
the show what's that yeah exactly so I'm
learning as we go as we grow Sasha lasts
well maybe what two weeks ago you stuck
around after the show yes so those who
are on our patreon channel who are
patrons of the show and watched the live
feed those of you who are watching live
know that we did a little bit of a
soldering session after the show and I
learned from that session that you know
what I need flux for desoldering not
just for soldering but for desoldering
as well and we're gonna be I'm gonna be
using that tonight in order to to do a
better job if you will of hopefully
making this thing work so this is a 10
over 116 port network switch this switch
was given to us but
cuz hey it doesn't work and maybe
category-five can figure out how to make
it go right three years later the back
office and said okay we're ready we
bought flux and we're ready to go so I'm
gonna jump over here and we're gonna see
what I can come up with so over here
we've got all the parts out just like we
did last week and you see I got the the
capacitors in from Amazon these are a
dollar sixty per capacitor so we're
gonna find out if this is going to be
worth our while here is the power supply
Jeff you remember me taking this out yes
yeah first thing I want to do is I want
to check if there is a charge on these
capacitors so the old capacitors I mean
they're only ten volts but so we're
basically doing this for you know you
may be dealing with 300 volt capacitors
in our case okay they're giving they're
registering DC volts of zero there is a
big capacitor on here let's check that
one and it registers zero point zero
zero two volts I'm not gonna get a shock
from that I mentioned that I might want
to show you how to discharge a capacitor
at 10 volts you're probably not gonna
get a shock from that anyways and you
could probably short-circuit it and just
and it will discharge safely especially
because of the fact that I'm not going
to be reusing these capacitors I'm
actually gonna be pulling them so I'm
not too concerned about about them but
you may want to look on youtube there
are better people than me to teach you
that I need to make sure because I'm
gonna be doing desoldering I need to
make sure my soldering iron is
reasonably hot so a little bit hotter
than when I'm soldering especially
because I'm going to be using a wicking
like a desoldering wick in order to
remove this solder I've got my helping
hands here and I'm curious if this is
gonna help me or hinder me it looks a
little bit like probably well my name
alone it should be helping you would you
would expect so so oh all right so do i
DC solder now do I start heating things
up no
hmm what I need to do first yeah Jeff
you hit it we need some rosin paste flux
so what this is going to do this like a
little paste that I'm gonna I'm gonna
put on the solder joints I need to put
this on before I D solder as well as
soldering because this is going to
protect those solder joints from from
the heat in such a way that it you know
I'm still going to be able to use those
solder joints so it you know we're
dumbing it down here today because I'm
dumb when it comes to this kinda stuff
I'm learning are you using a stir stick
I am using a stir stick and that that
leads me to my next point Jeff you can
purchase some amazing tools for applying
flux or you can run to your local coffee
shop and grab a coffee yeah you know
what you don't need anything fancy for
this folks and in fact I'm using my
hands here you might want to be careful
here I've got a 400 degree soldering
iron I'm gonna be pretty quick with this
I'm not afraid that I'm gonna burn
myself but this is probably not the
wisest way to do it if you're from a
health and safety company yeah so what I
need to do is with the flux on there I'm
heating up those soldering joints to
pull off that capacitor so that's one of
the dead capacitors okay
easy peasy that's what we looked at last
week and let's grab the other one on and
through the magic of television I can
actually speed this up a little bit for
ya and there you go let's get a quick
look at the capacitor itself so that's
blown you can see how that's been burst
and that is a 10 volt 1000 micro farad
capacitor so I ordered the the
replacements off of Amazon at a dollar
sixty each there were eight dollars for
five of them and I'm gonna I can
actually put those on there so let's
let's get some more some more flux paste
on all the flux now Jeff because we're
working with flux and capacitors does
that make this a flux capacitor but you
know what I think it does excellent
this is a disorder in wick oh and what
this this is why I need my soldering
iron about 50 degrees hot
than if I was soldering because I'm
actually going to remove the solder from
those joints so just by applying the
heat to the wick now it's actually
pulling the solder out of that and so
yeah it just kind of sucks it right out
of there huh so just give it a quick
second you can actually feel the the
solder turn to liquid underneath the
wick and and that's when you can pull it
away that's awesome there you go so see
those holes are wide open now get the ii
set there from the from the other
capacitor there's two identical 10 volt
capacitors that i need to redo you know
as you're just pulling that solder off
Marshman doesn't like our back of the
future joke oh come on it was good I
thought it was good you know it was good
good TV right here
you know we're hilarious so have you
removed all the solder now yes the
solder is gone here let me show you Jeff
okay so I'm just cleaning out the flux
paste there and you see those holes
there yeah so clean now it's nice and
clean right Wow but because I used the
flux it's not damaged right so I'm gonna
and notice I'm doing this in in double
time I've got two replacement capacitors
here same thing 10 volt 1000 microfarad
sorr as I said last week UF which I said
just to be safe and because that's what
I ordered off of Amazon you'll notice
that it has a negative side and it's
important to make sure that you get the
the polarity correct and I'll show you a
little bit I'll show you how obviously i
double-checked that when i took off the
other one but notice the the minus sign
on one side and also the the leg the
shorter one is negative and the longer
one is positive okay that just always
well not always sometimes they come and
they're not it's not quite as obvious
what the clarity is but you should have
I haven't I think I've always seen them
with the negative side see how it's
painted on there
but the lake should be positive as
longer and I've just bent the legs a
little bit to hold them in place for for
soldering well that makes sense smart
yeah it works tighten those up make sure
that they're in there good and more flux
flux capacitors looks so much like hair
wax it doesn't yeah and it doesn't apply
like paint flux a little bit that's
gonna just like turn it into a liquid
there you go
and again that just protects the joints
and make sure that you're not
overheating the joints and I don't know
it's some kind of magic and it does it
really helps to make sure the solder
works really really well mm-hmm though
here I'm not having quite as much
success looking at the tip of my
soldering iron it's kind of its kind of
wound up on the end of the tip which I
want to avoid so I'll just grab my just
like a dollar store wire cleaner there
and clean off the tip you don't have
again you don't have to buy the thirty
dollar soldering component to to clean
off the tip of your soldering iron you
know you're starting to make this look
really easy
well I'm trying Jeff I'm getting I'm
getting a little bit better I'm so I'm
heating it up a little bit
heating it up heating it up and then
applying the solder and pulling up and
now we've got a good joint there let's
heat it up heat it up heat it up and
then apply the solder there we go and
nice all right
do the same thing on this one and there
we go perfect okay now I guess you know
final quick little wipe there now I only
had some some paper towel handy you
probably want to get some nice or cotton
wipes or something like that but there
you go there's me there's my soldering
job good much cleaner right Sasha yeah
haha I'm getting there and getting there
there we go my okay so now we're gonna
grab our snips here and get rid of the
excess
on the capacitors they're you know eggs
are the capacitors buuuut so if this
works we've taken what would be a $50
replacement and we've pulled this thing
out of the landfill and for what just
just over three dollars the cost of a
good cup of coffee we've replaced the
capacitors and and hopefully we're good
to go now I've got some isopropyl 99.9
percent pure alcohol this is just to
kind of clean up that residue of the
flux that's been and that's a flight to
the board it's not gonna hurt it no that
won't hurt it Sasha no comm and that
will actually just that's just a cleaner
a solvent to clean off let's just get
this open it's brand new bottle so this
is just gonna clean off the flux a
little bit again I've only got paper
towel handy you want to have something a
little better than that I'll buy a
couple of nice cloths in order to to do
my cleanup but that'll just help to
dissolve the the residual flux and it's
not gonna be perfect with a paper towel
but it'll at least get the job done
every day all right let's get a look at
that see how that looks
all right there we go so the kind of the
orange discoloration that's the flux
itself so I got a you know I could do a
better cleaning job but there you go
there's my capacitors installed with the
correct polarity haha salted right on
there and my solder joints look just as
good as the ones that are on the board
so I'm happy about that and let's get
doing some cleanup okay all right clean
up complete and we are ready to go
that's the final product there you are
look at that so beautiful brand-new
dollar 60 capacitors on my power circuit
so this is the transformer circuit that
I'm reinstalling into the network switch
now should you have not checked to make
sure that the there was an electrical
current to make sure you did this right
or did how so Jeff well do you know like
first when we checked to make sure there
was no
charge or anything is should is their
way to check to make sure that the
capacitor you used is a valid Oh like
that I made a good joint yeah well I
should be able to tell when I like I
connected it and I didn't damage the the
the like where I was soldering it into
on the circuit board right and so I made
good contact there and I can tell that
by visually looking okay I'm so should
be good but we'll find out so let's put
back together
it passed others are in let's find it it
if it is actually successful we're going
to do that right after the break whether
you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H photo
video eBay or Amazon or even if you want
a free trial of audible you'll find the
best deals and support the shows we
produce by simply visiting the shopping
sites you already frequent by using the
links on our website visit category-five
TV slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching welcome back to
category 5 technology TV we have
finished soldering the capacitors we saw
me it's a team effort I was here
cheering you on let's go back over to
Ravi soo okay okay let's jump over to
this so I've got everything put together
I'm gonna put the chassis back together
here because I am believing in the job
that I have done here today Thank You
Marsh man for the blue smoke it's not
happening today come on I really I did a
decent job I think it I think it's gonna
work I think it's gonna work okay so
there it is it's all back together let's
grab the power cable and moment of truth
let's throw a 110 volts into this bad
boy
looking for the smoke uh-huh well I put
the case on so you're not gonna see any
smoke oh we got the power I see the
light all right but no other lights are
on because we have no Ethernet cables
plugged in let's see if I can track down
a hot Ethernet cable here yeah there's
one through the magic of television my
friend Jeff all right let's plug it in
let's see what what's gonna happen here
all right look and click and number one
is lit up yes oh man
let's move it around let's see if we've
got a good 10 over 100 switch here oh
yeah I've is lit up look at us look at
how smart we are
Wow oh wow the things that get us
excited
nice Hey look at this well you know why
I'm excited here Jeff cuz now you can
use it for the studio this was gonna be
no this for my raspberry PI's for my
pine sixty-four boards look at that this
is this room my a species I have 14 of
them yeah you need 16 I really do
all right wow that's exciting I can jump
right back over um so I mean you said it
was what about $3 in parts so here's the
thing Jeff this is it so $50 would
replace this network sweater right
mm-hmm
and sure okay that's what we're tempted
to do or maybe like twenty to forty
dollars I could replace the power
circuit board that is built into that
and and then I could replace that and
I'd feel like hey it was a bit of a DIY
job or for a dollar sixty per capacitor
on Amazon and it only took two days to
arrive and I can fix it myself
very potentially now this was a very
very simple fix and I was fortunate in
this case that it happened to be a
simple fix having removed the cover from
it last week I saw you and I saw
together it was a small little board and
it was pretty obvious that there were
two capacitors that were print out on
the board oh the nice little bubble on
the top yeah exactly but isn't that
often the case well yeah it quite often
is and
so you take it to a repair shop and
you'll pay $100 or $200 to get something
fixed or in this case it's like okay
well it's only $50 to replace it let's
just buy a new one
mm-hmm for three dollars and change I
bought the parts and saved it from the
landfill and saved it from that's it I
could replace it or I could what but it
would still like that's not gonna
biodegrade right you waste will recycle
it sure but right but even at the same
time just the time that it took to do
that it was probably less time than
hopping in the car heading to the store
picking out the mop you want to replace
it coming back like in that same time
frame like if you just had the capacitor
sitting around at home yeah you know
you'd be like oh this is faster than
going to the store
absolutely and actually in the in the
chat I was looking back at the chat last
week Marsh man said well didn't you go
to say Al and did they not have the
capacitors and it was exactly that it's
like if I can sit down on Amazon buy it
for a dollar 60 a cap and it'll be here
two days later and and here we are a
week later we've we've made the repair
yeah you fix two big things I did it you
really fix it fix it guy well and and
you can you can laugh or you can be like
whoa Robby sucks at soldering and so I
this being you this is your thoughts
that I'm putting into your head I can do
this I can take something apart and I
can figure out how to fix it and it's
like that is liberating sure yes that is
exciting because I have a big old TV
that's sitting here yeah Jeff you want
to grab a side of this hair hold on yeah
we got a big old TV right here that was
given to us for free
yeah because its power supply has a
burnt out what capacitor yes sir yeah
that's a beast oh yeah but it's it's a
free TV but I have to buy a dollar 60
capacitor
and I can do it patient we need you
please do we need to fix it so I mean
all that to say hey we did it here live
on the show a little bit more than real
time but but it can be done yes you can
do it you're just gonna have the right
tools so a couple of things that I
needed in order to make this repair
happen of course there's the dollar
sixty capacitors mm-hmm you need them by
the right capacitors I wanted to have a
soldering iron that I could adjust the
temperature of now we've reviewed that
on our show before you can tap five dot
TV slash solder and you'll be able to
pick one of those up they're really
inexpensive the one that I picked up
because I'm just a beginner I don't need
to invest in the $200 model I just need
an entry-level like let's get started
let's learn our way through and let's
tinker with some cheap stuff that I got
for free and and invest three dollars
and change in order to see if I can make
it work mm-hmm you need to have flux you
absolutely do and I learned that here on
the show because our community came
together and bashed me to death using
wit love yeah it was it was for good
intentions well yeah there's a couple
thumbs down on YouTube and that's okay
because I'm learning and that's that's
all there's always those YouTube you
have to have flex that's gonna help and
then we've also we've got to have now I
use lead-free solder so you do have to
have some solder as well I I have that
nice little NAT that I'm using which
basically protects any surface and
prevents heat from from getting onto
your table right and then I've got a
helping hands which helps me to hold the
soldering iron while it's hot and also
in some instances helps with the with
this like actually holding the circuit
board or what working on in this case it
was a little more of a hindrance than
anything but that's because I was
working with a big clunky board but
really in order to have your fork and
boxing cam ready
that's all you need and then you will go
viral which I need your help to do all
right so there you have it we've made
the fix and we're gonna head right over
to the newsroom because it's all about
you now I am ready all right here are
the stories were covering this week in
the category 5 TV newsroom Facebook
Instagram and whatsapp experienced
outages on Sunday which brought down
their systems worldwide for over two
hours now single point of failure is
being blamed and we're looking at
decentralized solutions like Bitcoin for
an answer
Microsoft has admitted that it's
outlook.com security breach was worse
than the company initially revealed Sony
has finally released the details about
its upcoming PlayStation 5 console and
we've got a sneak peek of the Nintendo
theme park opening next year and yes it
has real-life Mario Kart these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
clips like Linux by us Geoff Weston
Gemma you're building a brand new
beautiful website
what
aren't you you're terrible actor what
the swear acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay are you building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host I'm Satya riffin and here the
top stories were following this week
Facebook Instagram and whatsapp
experienced outages on Sunday which
brought down their systems worldwide for
over two hours now single point of
failure is being blamed and we're
looking at decentralized solutions like
Bitcoin for an answer part of the
problem with many of the online services
we use today is that they run on
centralized servers technology Giants
are stockpiling data on our activity in
massive warehouses without without
colossal servers all of our online
services and websites today wouldn't be
able to run it's no surprise then that
they so often can fall victim to outages
once a centralized server fails the
entire system fails until it is properly
repaired in the case of Facebook an
outage also means downtime for both
Instagram and whatsapp users it's a
serious liability that a single point of
failure could potentially shut down
three of the most used social media
services decentralization has the
adverse effect of of always being
available as a twitter user at ramp
Capital LLC humorously tweeted Bitcoin
never suffered a worldwide outage it's a
valid point Bitcoin has been
continuously running since it was first
released over ten years ago it's gone
through complete price collapse twice
hard Forks harsh Wars media cycles and
all kinds of inner disputes such
controversy would likely
anytime any kind of centralized project
from the get-go yet Bitcoin has not
stopped mining blocks and has continued
to run non-stop ever since the first
very first block that's an achievement
that no centralized server can even hold
a candle to of course blockchain based
networks like Bitcoin can't handle the
complexity Facebook currently serves
however it's a real example that
decentralized systems are self
regulating itself functioning that's
because there's simply no single point
of failure that fact that the Bitcoin
can stay resilient for over a decade
without experiencing a single outage is
a testament that decentralization works
it's so true mm-hmm I think about like
how I'm using BitTorrent yeah in order
to decentralize the downloads of NEMS
Linux right and some folks don't quite
get that yet I'm still getting people
saying oh well I want a direct download
which is a single point of failure but
if things are on BitTorrent and and big
files like images of nebs Linux for
example you you're it doesn't matter if
my servers down it doesn't matter if
such-and-such servers are down because
there's 30 of them and it's
decentralized and it'll just grab from
whatever one it's available on and if
the internet could also similarly take
that approach mm-hmm it's difficult
because the technology maybe isn't quite
there yet I mean we've got content
distribution networks is probably the
closest I can come up with to that like
being able to have your content on many
different cloud servers they and then
serving up from whichever one is
available that's that's kind of close
but I'd assume that since this outage
and Facebook is gonna change its ways
because I think being down for two hours
with you know Instagram whatsapp
Facebook that's it yeah right like
that's a lot of unhappy Millennials it's
tough to when a company builds itself up
to the point where it owns all those and
okay we're gonna put it on our
infrastructure so now we own Instagram
so let's put it on our Facebook
infrastructure well then what happens
right right and the truth of the matter
is
I mean they're also service that has
branded itself to like be addictive like
it's made itself so that people want to
be checking it all the time some things
you could go two hours without checking
when I was on Facebook that was least
like me I I was on it all the time so
two hours yeah and certain services like
you think about Google for example well
Google oh man if it went down for two
well they're provisioning basically that
they are to a lot of novice Internet
users who don't quite understand how
urls work Google is the intern entering
it essentially and that's to a non savvy
computer user but also a lot of
businesses are using them for email when
outlook.com went down guess what
loads of businesses were affected yeah
and not just outlook like you're looking
like not just email but also calendaring
shared files things like that all of a
sudden be becoming unavailable so a
single point of failures are a really
big catastrophic issue for business
mm-hmm I think where it's tough I mean
we're we're dealing this week with a
customer server who again on site has a
single point of failure they've got
their file server and the file servers
motherboard died right so now we have no
access to our file sharing
but that's on site so we know okay well
it's on the hard drives the data is
there we can get up and running we can
move the data on to other servers and
actually have access to it or we can
restore it to another file sharing
server and and be able to access it but
when it's in the cloud it's just oh it
was up one moment and now it's not right
where's my data where is that how can i
how can I stop gap to the point where
okay so that motherboard in the in the
cert main server needs to be replaced
well okay well we can pull a drive and
we can plug it into another computer and
boot it up and share those files to you
well that's great that's a stopgap but
where's the stopgap when it comes to a
cloud-based service where if it's down
it's just down you have no access to it
you can't pull a drive and move it on to
another server
and as you can't really hold of that
cloud service company you're and you
can't yeah you to give a call to Google
mm-hmm call up Facebook give Facebook a
call and see if you can get support yeah
isn't it don't they like not have phone
numbers listed even if you found a phone
number you're not gonna get a hold of
anyone and if you did they're not gonna
be helpful and that's a big part of the
it's a bit of a bit of it's it's a
problem yeah that the biggest companies
that rule our world with all these
technologies cannot be gotten ahold of
right if the services are down so say
email how would you then get ahold of
someone who only has email has email
well I mean you think about when we've
had power outages because of weather and
stuff and like cell towers are down I
mean how and I realize that's a
localized issue to that cell tower but
you have no cell signal from people who
use data on their phones and most people
have gotten away from in some cases
computers at home and they're doing
everything on their tablets and all that
now yeah so it's like if all that
disappears how do you reach anybody yeah
you know and we've kind of got to this
point society where you know it's like
the lights would go out people used to
walk across the roads like hey your
lights are always everything okay now
it's like yeah yeah you know and then
they said they're freaked out we're very
dependent as well and I think maybe
that's what has to shift maybe our
dependency has to shift a little bit and
that if things were offline could we
continue operating or at least be
sensitive enough to the fact that it's
offline yeah
here in Canada when the power was out Oh
for what 48 hours yes
years ago it was years here in Canada it
affected the country practically all of
Ontario which is a mass on the east side
I think because I had to do it that was
the big transformer explosion in New
York or something yeah and like the
whole domino were just gone all I know
is I couldn't shop at Walmart yeah
like some school I think it was I think
there's a squirrel when that kind of
stuff happens it's like okay we can
either choose to come together and work
together right and come up with
solutions or we can freak out exactly
really and and let's not freak out let's
let's work together and and and I think
you know I see that when when servers go
down and stuff and customers are our
patient and okay we understand that this
is something that needs to be worked
through so let's be those people that
you know okay well I understand this is
gonna take time right let's let people
do their jobs and and I think that's
gonna maybe make things a little easier
to cope with probably most of the people
needed a two-hour break from Facebook
anyway like most food pics yeah Twitter
Twitter's not owned by Facebook yet yet
I did that Microsoft has admitted that
it's outlook.com security breach was
worse than the company initially
revealed the software makers started
notifying some outlook.com users late on
Friday night that a hacker was able to
access accounts four months earlier this
year Microsoft's notification revealed
that the hacker could have viewed
accounts email addresses folder names
and subject lines of emails but in a
separate notification to other affected
users the company also admitted email
contents could have been viewed
Microsoft's discovered that a support
agents credentials were compromised for
its webmail service allowing
unauthorized access to some accounts
between January 1st and March 28th 2019
motherboard claims the accounts could
have been used by the hackers to reset
iCloud accounts linked to stolen I
phones so far Microsoft is refusing to
reveal how many accounts were affected
another Hackett fuck I feel like this is
every week it's like okay it's like oh
that's shocking
unbelievable now that's believable that
happens all the time here's the thing
now so it's saying that people are being
notified if they've been affected just
assume if you have outlook calm that
you've probably been affected and then
just that make that assumption also make
the assumption if you have any email
anywhere that probably at some point you
too will be affected so make sure that
you remember that sensitive information
shouldn't go in emails but yet it does
contacts right yeah we just had a
conversation about how the world seems
to revolve around social media and all
these services that you know big
business owns and then it's like oh so
don't put sensitive him where do you put
it
carrier pigeons right like why yes Jeff
you know do we go back to the Espionage
days of like a little chalk mark on a
fire hydrant and exactly look at that
how do you say Traveler mm yeah instant
technology you know the sad thing about
this story is from a company the size of
Microsoft you would think that's it that
they would a have noticed this earlier
and be fast that will be a little bit
more open about how many people were
impacted your approach though Jeff is
like you would think that Microsoft
would do better well that's the problem
we all think Microsoft will do better
so Facebook will do better no excuse
because of the size of the company no it
just makes them a bigger target just
yeah assume the worst and be pleasantly
surprised when you're wrong no likes
protect yourself and as you know and
make sure you check to see whether or
not any of these breaches have been made
have I been owned calm it's a great
service that will help you to see I mean
but how do you like verification dot IO
mm-hmm how many of us had information in
this database that we didn't even
subscribe to we didn't even know we were
a part of well
mmm-hmm we're there see three people
from my own office and we're small
awfully we're on the verification IO
exploit Wow
and you probably were too I mean it's
huge yeah see what I like it like I have
I subscribed to a password keeper
software okay right which one do you use
if I may ask because that's a hot topic
I use that right now I use dashlane I
buy the premium subscription for a year
and one of the things I like about it is
that day four I pay for tail I pay for
it and one of the things I do like is it
has dark web monitoring and so I
regularly can go in and see if any of my
information has been found on the dark
web okay any breach in it can tell me
what's been stolen nice where it's all
part of your password all part of my
password management tells me where it
was stolen from and when it was stolen I
just got an alert the other day that one
of my email accounts had popped up on a
dark web breach from three years ago and
it was finally accessed in February do
you know why I love that in your
password manager is it immediately
prompts you to change your password yes
look at that Dropbox was exploited and
my password from ten years ago when I
used to use a box was exploit it go and
change it yes yes that's great and I
like that and it also interacts to go
okay you have this service that was
hacked at this point and that email
address is used for this other one
that's been hacked you want to make sure
like we've checked and your passwords
are similar they're not the same but
they're similar maybe they have the
hashes of the past
you wanted they do that well well
because it's the password keeper so it
stores it within there so I mean if I
use like one two three four five says it
actually do that though does it tell you
if your password is similar on other
sites it has to it has told me this is a
similar password you want to change it
so that they're not close you just use
the password generator then I can use
the password generator I I do use it
sometimes sometimes I have a system I
have to explore this service but the
reason
that I don't like what you're saying
right now yeah is because if they know
that the password is similar then they
know what my password is any password
manager should not know what my password
is but yes I don't know how the system
works but I do know Ash's hashes are
fine sure take a take a hashed
like encrypted password and compare it
to another one and be able to tell if
it's identical right but if it's similar
like if I say maybe once maybe it is
that it's the same I thought it was that
it was similar maybe it is that it's the
same let let me give you the the what
I'm what I mean just so it's clear so
password 1 2 3 yeah versus password 1 2
3 4 if I if I know what those passwords
are I can compare them and say oh those
are really close right now if I instead
have the hashes the encrypted versions
of those they're gonna be completely
different right because they're 256-bit
AES decrypted they are not at all
similar because they're binary data is
completely different right there is no
connection between them and it will
never be able to tell that if it it
could tell if that two passwords are
exact because the hashes the the maybe
that a check sums will be the same maybe
that's what it wasn't okay that they
were the same that I I would appreciate
yeah I do get that alert if if I was to
find out that Dropbox was exploited and
I used that example because it was and
then it said by the way you were also
using that password on this this this
and this site that's scary because I
know that now someone else has my
password but immediately from my
password managers perspective it shows
me I need to change the passwords on
those sites as well right right if I use
the same password on multiple sites just
I want to be clear about that yeah I
will go home and take a look and confirm
okay but you could be right on that one
because I know every once in while i got
an alert that's like oh you're not 100%
secure anymore you're like 99 percent
could secure because you've used the
same password right so yeah and when I
create my master password for a password
keeper you remember it when I create the
master password that becomes part of the
encryption key
right so then the password manager
company themselves cannot read they
don't know what my password is because
they don't know what my what my key is
yeah that I created this my own private
key hash so so they should only be able
to compare check sums not password I
will confirm that okay so but what I do
like about the service is its
cross-platform so if I pull something in
on my computer and now uploads to my
phone so that if I go to the site on my
phone I can add its like mine is that
it's great LastPass does some great
stuff as well that's what I use but I'm
looking for something alternative to I
loved Aisling LastPass recently updated
themselves and I hate it yeah I lost
passes watching the the latest update is
garbage I had LastPass for one of my
email addresses couldn't remember my
master password main you email address
forgot that password too and I realized
LastPass is not for me clearly I can't
not remember the password so I did like
episode way way back and it was like
pass was it hook called password box and
they got bought out by Intel
that's who I'm tell security yeah so
you're with Intel Security's yeah what's
it called it's like a blue blue the true
key I think
kruky true key that's right that's who
I'm with because Turkey
I remember that password and they let me
in so I'm with them that's one of the
cool things about dashlane is I can set
up a somebody to take over my account
like say I end up passing away my wife
is on the account okay as somebody who
she can contact - lean to say yes he's
no longer able to access this I don't
have his master password and she's
already authorized on the account so
that then after a 48 hour check they can
transition the account to her process
dual hashing I don't know how it works
but but I do like that service because I
mean with all the like web-based
services we use nowadays it's like my
wife's like havin all the passwords I'm
like I have over 150 I don't know the
passwords either but I've got the master
password and remember that though oh I
remember it definitely remember your
master
where folks Sony has finally released
the did the first details about its
upcoming PlayStation 5 console gamers
have been waiting patiently to find out
any information about ps4 s replacement
but until now details have been kept
firmly under wraps
now Sony's System Architect mark Cerny
has released information about the
next-gen console revealing it will be
much faster more powerful and include
improved audio good news for avid
playstation users the new console will
include a high-speed solid-state hard
drive well that won't mean much to a lot
of people the points of the SSD is to
dramatically reduce things like loading
times which will make everyone's gaming
experience a bit better for example when
playing spider-man on ps4 it can take up
to 15 seconds to fast travel between
different locations cerny showed the
same task just taking 800 milliseconds
on the new machine Oh another big focus
for the next-gen console is 3d audio PS
5 which isn't the official name of the
new console will see gamers being
immersed in audio from above behind and
beside and it will be best experienced
through headphones the next PlayStation
supports right supports ray-tracing
graphics the first time a game console
has ever managed graphics like it
they're usually used in Hollywood
special effects and occasionally in
high-end processors it means users of
the next-gen Playstation will receive
much better and more realistic visuals
it's also worth noting that while the PS
5 will have all of these improvements
you don't need to worry about
compatibility with ps4 games the new
console will still take physical disks
and gamers can still play PlayStation 4
games on the new console don't expect to
be able to buy one in 2019 you'll have
to wait until at least next year to see
it on shelves and we don't yet know how
much it will cost so let me get this
straight ps4 has a spinning hard drive
yes you can hear it really yes Wow
see I still have my ps3 at home I just I
couldn't spend the money to upgrade to
the ps4 because then I would lose all my
access to my games Oh cuz they weren't
backwards compatible that's right yes
so yeah so they've maybe improved that
with the ps4 to PS 5 and the ps4 ps4 pro
that those are backwards compatible -
yeah so still I mean it sounds quite
follow me camera guy sounds like it's
great and I'm excited about that
you know the high-end graphics you know
I'd be interested to see what they do
and it'll be interesting to see if they
pull out some sort of like AI graphics
development well the software for some
games I'm excited for it to get even
better because we just upgraded from a
ps4 to a ps4 Pro and like the sunlight
beams in the games are just magnificent
like it's such a cool graphics upgrade
just that alone so here we are for the
next one I'm just
and I hear ya somebody unveiled last
week that they're working on a 16 K
television hosting K yeah this thing's
like 17 feet wide it's bigger than a box
it requires two stories whole stories of
a building yep what could you imagine so
we need a ps5 for that your ps3 probably
won't provide the same resolution
probably I know but I still like my
retro pack that's true my intro PI Oh
Drake though I was just gonna say yeah
go is like a hit at my house yeah I love
it kids love it I love it Nintendo fans
you may want to update your bucket lists
the world's first Super Nintendo theme
park is set to open its doors next year
the 351 million dollar venture will
offer heaps of excitement for video game
fans promising state of the art rides
interactive areas shops and restaurants
one particular highlight is sure to be
the real-life mario kart race course
where pairs of riders will sit in carts
running on a rail with one controlling
drift and the other concentrating on
power
and weapons so keep your eyes peeled for
those pesky bananas the park will open
at Universal Studios Japan in 2020 in
time for the Tokyo Olympic Games
Nintendo and Universal Studios first
unveiled the plans for the park back in
2015 but now they've revealed a sneak
peek
it looks like unsurprisingly Mario will
be the star of the show as the icon
leads the charge it interacts with
visitors
the teaser doesn't give away too much
but it does suggest that the Decorah
will be very much alike something
directly out of the classic Mario games
this will be the first of three Super
Nintendo theme parks to open with plans
currently in place to open two more in
Hall in Hollywood and Orlando of course
a trip to Japan won't come cheap but if
you've already started planning for the
visit to the Olympics then you may want
to leave space on the itinerary for this
quirky day out speaking of retro gaming
Wow I think this is totally awesome why
did it take them so long now I'm really
excited for the Orlando and Hollywood
openings because that's a little bit
more accessible for me but oh this is
gonna be great watching the videos of
people there is gonna be amazing
yeah it's it's gonna be fun I can't help
but wonder though if it may over time
lose its novelty appeal Jeff know why
we're talking about retro pie tonight I
know but our Odroid go is so that we can
play games from 1990 I get that but
there you would have to be aware of the
that era of gaming to really get the
novelty of it if that Park is around 50
years from now our people are gonna like
are my grandkids gonna go why is this so
old looking Jeff I don't want to think
about a world where people don't know
what Mario is I know I just want to know
if somebody legitimately slips on a
banana it are they gonna get upset or
are they just gonna say this this is
that will make an incredible loss
hey let's take a real quick look at coin
gecko this is what the crypto market
looked like as of 1800 hours Eastern
Time on Wednesday
what is it the 17th of April 2019
Bitcoin
everything's losing here so bitcoins
down almost 50 bucks at 5200 $22.99 u.s.
litecoin is down to 79 74 aetherium 166
84 Mineiro is down to 68 dollars and
nine cents per coin the little guy
stellite is a 1.56 ten thousandth of a
cent and turtle coin also dropping 0.4
ten thousandths of a cent at one point
six don't forget if you are going to
invest in the cryptocurrency market it
is always volatile and never closes
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers who for submitting
story sauce this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm Jeff
Weston we've got another Kingston
DataTraveler to give away that thing
this thing is great yes it is we talk
about data security and where can you
put your data that is gonna be safe well
this is a USB flash drive with a built
in let's get in here boom keypad you see
that so I actually have to punch my
password in there in order to gain
access to my data now similarly somebody
else who gets a hold of this if I drop
it in a parking lot or what-have-you
they're not gonna be able to access my
data because they don't know my password
right if they try it will inevitably
after 10 tries wipe the data decryption
keys from the device negating the data
entirely so it is a fantastic way to be
able to carry confidential data with you
so work stuff documents passwords
whatever else cryptocurrency keys things
like that like a perfect place to store
them is on a Kingston DataTraveler 2000
one of the things I like about that is
that the software is onboard the USB
itself
any computer you plug it into it works
you have to download that soft 256-bit
aes encryption hardware yes and you
don't need as you say you don't need to
install any software because it's all
built into the hardware yeah that's
fantastic that's what that opens up for
you we've talked about it on the show
but if you haven't seen it yet what that
means is because you don't need any
software to decrypt the data here you
just need to punch in your password it
will work with any device doesn't matter
if you're on Windows it doesn't matter
if you're on Mac Linux and even if you
want to plug it into an Android TV box
or smart TV with your JPEGs or your
videos on it it will still work because
you're decrypting it on the hardware
level
you don't need software and that will
you know it promotes the fact that hey
your data is always encrypted there's no
having to set anything up it's already
there mm-hmm so we've got some of those
to give away we've got one more left I
believe it is in order to qualify do you
want to tell them how they can qualify
to win this you email contest at
category five TV and in the subject line
you say Kingston and you know then your
give me give me a data traveller mm like
that yeah we want to know where you're
watching yeah so that when you win we
can give kudos out and shout out and and
just let us know that it's for the
Kingston draw so that and the reason we
say that is because if somebody were to
cast a ballot six months from now and we
don't have any left
we know that that's sorry we're out of
them yep yeah that's how it works but
that's that's all the time that we have
this week I want to say thanks to
everybody who's been pitching in I'm
we're really really close to being able
to replace our broadcast system
excellent um it's a lot of expense it's
gonna be a lot of work but that means a
lot of fun because we're gonna be
building this this Wirecast broadcast
system here on the show if you'd like to
contribute to that project
head on over to donate category-five TV
or become a patron at patreon.com slash
category-five that's a great way to
support us because he give as little as
um
dollar-a-month and because we have so
many viewers I mean inevitably that that
just becomes a great big number and to
you it's just as little as a buck and
you know so it works out really really
well and and that gives us a chance to
be able to upgrade the studio and in our
main goal right now is to replace that
server because we do have a dying
broadcast server we want to be able to
replace it so don't forget we are on
twitter at category-five TV I'm on
Twitter personally at Robbie Ferguson
and I do follow back those of you who
follow me if I haven't followed you back
just send me a quick message and I will
do so
we're also on YouTube as category 5 TV
just do a quick search or if you want to
watch little edited down snippets of the
show this is a very popular thing we
just hit 20,000 subscribers thank you
for subscribing at Linux tech show com
we're also on the roku channel store and
you can get us on Plex Kodi other
players if you head on over to our
github page like our repositories there
if you go to github.com slash cat 5 TV
of course our main website ties
everything together we've got our SS
feeds we're practically anywhere so hey
if you want to watch if you want to
listen we're podcasting we're vodcast
'never you want it's all at category 5
TV culminated together there for you so
that's all the time that we have for
this week next week we are gonna be
unboxing the world's biggest Raspberry
Pi screen case or the very least the
biggest one we've ever seen you don't
want to miss it we'll see you next week
take care bye
[Applause]
