[Music]
morning everybody this is community
coffee break on Monday the 27th of April
2020
welcome to week and who else do I see I
was getting a little bit worried there
because um the internet it I don't know
what's going on today hmm I don't know
if it's like the usage or what YouTube
studio which is what the videos has been
down all morning so needless to say
finally got all of the video up from
last Wednesday's show but what do you do
as a content creator if you can't even
access the backend so and then I
couldn't I couldn't connect to our
server at the studio which is using
Google Remote Desktop so I don't know if
it was like a Google issue that was
going on this morning or what and so I
finally got in triggered the feed and
then I couldn't connect to zoom on my
phone so just shaping up to be one of
those days man you're just you're just
having a a fun day today you know -
mm-hmm
when I try to connect to zoom my laptop
yeah so something something's going on
today tell you what sorry so far
touchwood touch wood everything you just
touch your head what happened so far
I've been pretty stable I hope I don't
jinx it but so far it's good so we'll
see what good good and your internet has
also been pretty stable
Wow you couldn't resist could you Robbie
yes so bad you're so bad but the answer
is yes oh good so glad to hear both glad
to hear both this week I just I
literally just took the took the weekend
off I didn't do I didn't do anything
even watch than you nothing yelling like
that bp9 has stopped you just for a
quick second because this is a really
important this is really really
important what we're all going to do is
we are going to press record and that is
my new zoom background everybody press
record oh look we can don't worry I'll
send you the video and Sabu will figure
it out tomorrow when everybody shows up
and everybody is in his kitchen right
now I wonder if but can I raise my hand
I can raise my hand look
I don't know what that does on the
screen but you know it just says right
well it for the recording it does
nothing but it says well I I as the as
the I guess host button that says the
lower hand okay on my screen I have the
power to put your hands down
you see the things we need to do Ron is
demonstrating how you can use the
virtual background so tomorrow if we can
all show up with with soul be making a
sandwich in the background that that'll
be fantastic I could only do that if I'm
running Windows oh that's right yes I'd
be able to do it then definitely Ron
will be definitely Ron will be able to
do it so sorry about that but I
interrupted I couldn't I couldn't pass
up the moment sorry BB that's okay not a
problem now all I was saying was it
because I had such a lazy bones
slacker weekend although I was
explaining before we were started the
recording but I I did make it out to the
to the airport to get some stuff ready
for the annual the airplanes got to go
in for its annual you know so sorry we
lost either bp9 you hear airplane was
going in for its annual yeah that's
annual inspection that's all it's just
judging and if that happens every year
and I was just joking that it happens
every year therefore and but anyway I
did catch up with the with the community
coffee break thank you
from Saturday and Robby you were
confused about about so I don't I
wouldn't ever put that past me yeah yeah
it's not a huge deal yeah I don't know
if you ever figured
I couldn't what was that confused ago
this time BP now Peter was trying to
explain what what programming land she
was you're asking what programming
language having and he kept Peter kept
saying Lazarus and you recognized that
that was the IDE yet you're actually
working you're actually he was actually
coding in Pascal in cash cow okay yeah
yeah so apparently Lazarus is just that
is just a Pascal IDE now there is a
Pascal compiler on Linux and you don't
need the Lazarus IDE to do that ain't
it's called free Pascal compiler if PC I
believe I'd not try that I don't have
any none of my Pascal source code
survived so I don't have any it's a
trying down a flattened disk somewhere
my floppy disks have grown some fuzz
literally grown gray fuzz
there are literally there are like wound
trails or something or no and that
happens if you store them for long
enough and and don't do anything with
them and you know try to read them or
something and yeah I was very very lucky
to get to get you know three or four
disks to be able to get the data off
three or four disks to put on the SD
cards but yeah yeah no joy those were
the days mmm it was a running code I
take to not those goes needing
grandstand ah okay you compiled it you
already compiled it gotcha
yeah you been there well unless your
Linux glory and getting to view together
if they have to run it on my pine book
or something yeah
so I was just yeah just saying that I
had been so long since I've touched
Pascal that I would be I would be
twisting to try today on I don't think I
ever have to do that as well so my
language these days is see that's what I
do and I sort of presentation from
Dennis Ritchie I believe it was where he
was trying to you know trying to work up
C++ trying to see how how wonderful it
was I've not had that experience with
C++ my experience with C++ is you know
you mess up one character and the
compiler will just blow up in your face
it will it will throw pages of Error
error messages at you and it's often
very difficult to figure out what
exactly you messed up it's like testing
an HTML code and you check it it's also
just called HTML a programming language
and then you fix 100 you know you know
it's so bird calling HTML a programming
language is like calling PHP a
programming language a PHP outputs HTML
I have to say it I had to say it's come
on now that's not true at all you can
compile PHP but if you what if you place
the PHP executive all in the header and
then had it refer to at the end of mile
that's not compiling it that is just
passing it in as writer from yeah I
think I've seen any compiler that I
scene has compiled it into a different
language like C e or something like that
so yeah I would convert the code into C
and then compile it yeah yes because you
know it's not the same thing
come on I will fight that I let that
statement
it's like sayings like CSS is the same
as PHP it's not true there it is looks
like Sudoku is it yeah nice running in
that's running in window here sound held
on I hear sound it's running in Windows
that's why I don't know any Linux yeah
Peter just put a wing Peter you could
just put the microphone a little more in
your mouth so it's getting trippy I was
with my sister in the town I bought
myself a new washing machine because I
have it's 15 years old and it's starting
to leak when it and it's a robot only we
need I think taking in water in a few
seconds and then I go home
has society up for members benefits club
I didn't agree to that and there is a
link that you can get out of the club
but in order to do that you have to
agree to the terms and the problem with
that and the problem with that too so be
was that now they have a good email
address that they know works so they can
sell it yeah
email address is only that store store
ah good man if you believe if you
believe that you believe anything nobody
set up if he set up an email alias
that's like Lowe's at category if they
don't fix this then I have 139 hey subbu
Sabu yeah that's reminds me of a video
that I saw a while you get the t-shirt
sorry I've just given everybody a hard
time cuz you know I don't care today I'm
just gonna do it we're just sitting
around the coffee cooler come on sittin
around the coffee maker
no hot frappe it seems like
you're talking about the bottled one
sure I do the cold brew as well yeah
cold brew I guess what they say is use
your French press and you just leave it
like overnight with cold water in it and
then he like non-acidic
and really really good I haven't tried
it yet I really should i they is the
first result in Google when I asked
what's with this cold brew fad but I see
everybody's selling like these cold brew
kits and you got to buy all this fancy
equipment and it's like no you can just
use a French press so I'll just use my
French press and give it a try but
apparently the hot water makes your
coffee acidic but by doing it with the
cold brew method you don't get that acid
acidity and or so many put sugar and
cream in their coffee so I got cream
today
expend some of that bitterness yeah yeah
maybe well I usually drink in black
having big coffee makers that that they
have at gas stations and you dream about
this yeah I want to have one of those in
my kitchen button for coffee
whoo oh I know what you mean yeah yeah
the instant spin spin yeah you know
they're pretty awful be pretty awful
coffee at those truck stops they're not
actually make chocolate and when you
actually make coffee from from from from
beans which is what I have the coffee
from beans but in addition to that I
want to have have it make a chocolate
hot chocolate and there's just no
pleasing you is it's off you gotta have
you gotta have one of everything you
know what the the Tassimo and the Keurig
is is what I use
I haven't Asamoah at the studio and I
got a cure a get at home and those are
kind of the same kind of thing like just
one-off
coffees right I don't know if they've
done this yet but the Couric's
apparently the latest courage are going
to have RFI tags in the K Cups so that
only genuine take ups no machine yeah
well they were saying that a computer
years ago you you can't just put a
no-brain take up in here is it going to
be like is it gonna be like printer
cartridges though where they did that to
printer cartridges with the chips and
then suddenly no name no name different
or manufacture no you I think you can
hack the Keurig there was a new story
about this
three years ago so on here he reused
them and he filled them up and then he
already can you come by a third party
one but you could take of take of the
top lid and just stick on top of the
it's it's I think that you are putting a
genuine one the Tassimo uses and or you
could just disassemble the courage and
alright accept what's coming to mind is
are they doing that and I don't know
this but are they doing it to make it
smarter because to be honest Tassimo has
better coffee than Keurig because Keurig
it's just like it's either spraying
water into the cup the cup the Tassimo
has a barcode on it that it reads that
barcode and that tells it is this a
frothy drink is this a hot drink because
this coffee is this tea and it responds
to the barcode of corn accordingly so
you can get frothy milk on top from a
task especially that is the only reason
because yeah reaching your hand and
pushing you're the one who one push the
hot chocolate button is buy a can buy a
can of hot chocolate
ad kettle water a friend of mine tried
to talk me into inter trading in my old
Nissan Leaf it's a 100% electric car and
trying to buy a new one I said there is
no financial situation where that is an
advantage because the card but he said
you can get all these new my cons you
can get modern modern conveniences you
can figure out I know I know you know
what mod cons are sorry Robbie you can
get you can get the lights can turn
themselves on automatically I said I
think I know when to turn the lights on
that you can figure out it to someone
beside you before you change lunch I
said I know how to look to see a lot of
people bp9 don't they teach them to do
this stuff parallel parking assistance
just learned the most stupid feature is
the automatic headlights turning on and
off because it doesn't work in total
staff have taken their good point yeah
and the other thing is come on so often
when you drive through a a part of the
road where the trees have grown over
here and cost shade to fall along all
the automatic lights come on and how how
our young guys supposed to stock their
girlfriends now you know the house and
turn off the headlights and rocks at her
window now is that what you did with
Barry
[Laughter]
speeching about how to how to find and
how to do the courtship and so on and he
mentioned that he had a roommate he goes
she was living alone but he took her
back to his place he had a roommate and
the three of them was watching a movie
and then he said and he had to we have
to print out a CD
is not a joke his name is just in case I
lost legit in just in case yeah okay I
like that his parents had a laugh yeah
what's a bad place to do that burger Oh
kind with a bit like to probably only if
you have a user named games and a woman
no the back like to body user slash bin
slash games perhaps yeah check your
filesystem my recommendation is that
programs that you're making that you are
making and that feels a lot it's not
installed as a package as I did there
beyond package or something and put it
in a search less locals less been good
idea yes yeah and or if you are the only
one who was going to use it if you if
you create a folder name and then bin
anything you put in that of the so you
know in a partial in most abuse this so
you can run the game without having to
type the path yeah because we're that
lazy hey does anyone have a Linux
computer in front of them I just have my
phone so yes I'm sure
so user slash local slash bin slash
games is that what we're looking at for
Peter you're gonna make me look me over
what is it user slash local slash games
/ games at that Peter user so the user
is spelt you
and then slash local slash games and
it's all lowercase yeah I know a guy and
they know that battery or if it's : of
Windows and then it's on the fight like
you don't yell to you Jake it's the
audio in I know very good we could up
like y'all on Windows or better
I'm not I'm not playing around if you
think of a anybody yes sorry I'm having
trouble making out Peter has anyone able
to help yeah I'm having trouble oh yeah
okay guy I would fly in town huge a nice
player on the quad yeah but yeah but
books was a very good app like a Windows
this I found a better way I'm glad that
they call I have no idea Peter I've
already said when you mentioned I have
no experience with that at all yeah I
know I understand yeah it's a terminal
application to play audio files but I
don't I don't use it or or haven't ever
used it what is it you're trying to do
later are you saying that the sound is
better in Windows and it's not working
as well in Linux on his that could be
that could be due to any number of
things I know I mentioned this when we
talked three or four days ago it all
depends on the configuration of your
machine and if your audio dry your your
sound card is properly configured that's
going to be the biggest thing so yeah
it's tough so
have a lot of experience with that I
just learned the system figure it out
for each other yeah I did he told the
debt collector thing to do that but he
did that debated Rohtak they said then
they don't get to make well I got very
good at anyway they'd gone anyway yeah
you know my ailing no very good but he's
dead you still with it today and now I
know I'm gonna tell you Peter why your
hearing isn't that any good I was
thinking of audio when I was editing at
the studio on Sunday yesterday my audio
or my video editor DaVinci Resolve I
wasn't getting any sound out of it and
I'm like what is going on because I've
been plugging everything in it detected
like 15 different sound outputs so it
ended up it ended up sending the audio
to one of the TVs in the in the studio
the next room over so I'm trying I'm
trying to figure out where the audio is
going so I had to remap the sound in the
Vinci resolve which is cool that you can
do this you could actually select the
sound card specifically and then it
shows you all the outputs on the sound
device so in my case it had seven
outputs or or maybe eight and so I
selected the first two and sure enough
that's left and right and in that work
but goodness me I'm gonna have to figure
out how to like set up a permanent
solution because it's crazy
yeah I ordered some couplers for HDMI
off of Amazon which i think is an
experiment experiment because I'm trying
to figure out how to get the cameras a
little bit more slack in the studio
because right now it's like there's like
four feet of cable coming out from the
piece of PVC pipe that I ran so not a
lot of room to move around so rather
than getting a HDMI extender which are
like a hundred and fifty bucks each so
that would be you know times that by
four for the number of cameras we have
plus add another one for a laptop you
know it gets pretty expensive
so I thought what I would try is they've
got couplers for five bucks and it's
just an HDMI coupler that you plug into
one cable and then it allows you to plug
in another cable to extend it so I'm
gonna try that a longer cable oh oh you
could cut the PVC tube shorter so you
have more selecting okay I can't cuz I
don't have a difference I don't have a
way to and I don't have a contractor but
that's actually a good question Lance
man the reason is because each camera
has a different type of interface so
while the high-end cameras have the full
HDMI output a couple of our cameras have
micro HDMI okay so they're a very so I
want to have some kind of something in
the studio that I can plug into and I
don't think I don't think you're gonna
find a micro HDMI cable that will reach
that long and and there are thinner
cables so I don't think I think then do
much signal loss if you have a handsaw
you can cut PVC pipe with a hex which I
don't have and the hardware stores are
closed no I have a dremel somewhere and
I thought I'd use the Dremel to do it
but if you're patient I'm gonna have one
shoot up into my forehead aren't I yeah
I'll just have to wait it out what the
coupler is meant to just give me
something that I can plug into so what
sort of signal lost
what sort of signal laughing you're
gonna experience through those couplers
that's what I don't know that we're
talking RF frequencies here this is a
digital signal yeah okay okay so you're
probably how long an HDMI yes yeah and
you gotta start extending it with power
right so much like Ethernet if you go
over 600 feet or whatever you've got to
have an extender in there so yeah it's
gonna need if I go if I get signal loss
then I'll have to I'll have to use a
powered extender but there are only five
bucks for the for the passive ones so I
thought I'd try it it's worth or a
window test David
are you trying to go Robbie um well it's
a 25-footer to get into the studio and
then I got a do maybe another 10 15 feet
from there so I think it'll I think it
should work I'm hoping so it's that'd be
a really cheap and cheerful solution but
the cables that I have are like these
really thick woven ones right like the
25-footers really good really good solid
cables so those are what I want to
daisy-chain plug into a new thing that
one will be where you plug a USB 1/8 a
capillary they I love that I love the
the Freudian slip that he calls it a
category-5 TV yeah cat 5 extender yeah
they make those 4 HDMI as well but
that's what I'm talking about those are
about 150 bucks so I want to see if I
can use a cheap one first yeah is that a
USB extender to category 5 technology TV
those are brilliant those are such great
devices and that's exactly what I'm
looking at for the video but because our
cameras are 4k it's gonna you can't get
the cheap $40 ones those are only 1080p
so so I'm hoping the coupler will work
because five bucks a pop yeah oh yeah
it's HDMI yeah so all right guys I gotta
go
have a wonderful afternoon I'll see you
again for coffee break tomorrow she goes
next week
you
