I'm taking an approach this week as I
look at my kind of New Year's resolution
right to get healthier to monitor my my
various vitals and and learn how to
become a healthier physical person and
one of the devices that I picked up I
finally gave in but on the cheap and I
got myself a fitness tracker okay okay
to clarify fitness tracker and not
SmartWatch correct okay I didn't want a
SmartWatch well what what makes a
SmartWatch well the difference between a
fitness tracker in a SmartWatch yes is
your SmartWatch will receive
notifications for push notifications yes
notifications thank you but be able to
like potentially do phone calls read
your text messages respond stuff like
that this does that really yeah so maybe
it's a SmartWatch maybe it's a
SmartWatch they don't call it either
they could they call it well they call
it what it is blood pressure monitor
activity tracker heart rate monitor
sleep monitor okay so the four main
functions of this device so it is of
course a watch them so one of the things
that so this is $40 that cat5 dot TV
slash tracker I wanted to get a cheap
fitness tracker I'm just lying I'm just
learning have to shop around okay so I'm
just learning kind of how I can monitor
my own vitals and and get healthier by
motivating myself and challenging myself
by knowing the numbers right so this is
just a cheap fitness tracker yeah
obviously and I didn't want to go all
the way to say a Fitbit or one of the
the fancier devices because what if it
doesn't work for me
I can't justify that and again I'm
looking at doing this entire process
with under a hundred dollars spent right
so for 40 bucks I got this it is
Bluetooth is paired to my phone and it
has a like an analogue looking clock on
it which I like
it's got my heartrate and everything
else I can change my mode it's gonna
monitor my sleep patterns
and again it's gonna graph everything so
that I can see how am i sleeping right
how am i how's my heart rate I noticed
when I was having some technical
difficulties before the show I was at
120 bpm oh yeah that makes that right
now I'm talking a lot not breathing a
lot so I'm at 90 no that's not right 72
72 am I making you nervous but this is
pretty neat so so the goal with this is
to be able to track my heart rate my
blood pressure that's really it and the
sleep pattern thing is cool there's
another thing that I really really like
about this one and and a lot of them
will have this is that it has a
vibrating alarm yes so I can set it on
my phone the time that I want my alarm
to go off and it will go off on this as
a vibrating function yeah so I don't
wake up other people in the house see
yours is super fancy how much did you
pay this isn't three this is young yeah
I'm sitting at 103 it's like clearly I'm
stressed out that looks gorgeous yeah I
take 300 for this listener this is the
new Samsung active - beautiful okay so
40 so I but I'm very very entry level
it's not fancy it doesn't look beautiful
it looks like a like an early model
Fitbit to me yes and yeah it looks like
it has all the features that I would
expect from a fitness tracker and of
course being bluetooth it's it's
graphing everything and it's monitoring
everything for me so that I can graph it
and see those patterns so again by
seeing patterns just like this smart
scale that I picked up by seeing those
patterns I'm able to plan out how can I
improve things right if I'm only you
know getting so many hours of sleep this
will tell me that I need an extra hour
of sleep each night so then I can plan
around that make sense yeah another
thing that it does that I really really
love we looked at ulla long ago but I've
since lost my and and I am really bad
for this I'm always drinking black
coffee and always forgetting to drink
water yes I try to throughout the day
but this will actually notify me anytime
I should be drinking
but water so it's gonna help me to keep
hydrated as well which is gonna help me
to metabolize and lose weight right it
also there I learned a new word to me
that perfectly describes me and that is
sedentary oh yes because you sit around
I sit around all day long not not like a
lazy boy but like a desk I'm at my desk
for 910 hours a day yes my job actually
has been inked like it's changed to
Morissette I can't settle in Terry I
imagine that's how you pronounce it
right I think so now I'm slowly and
methodically helping people which is
nerd cool less active so I mentioned
that I learned that word because one of
the features of this fitness tracker is
a sedentary alarm oh what the heck is
that so I searched for it and it turns
out if I've been sitting still for too
long it'll let me know oh so it's just a
quick notification hey get up walk
upstairs go grab yourself another coffee
you know just get up on your feet for a
few minutes right and and that's again
gonna help me to get more physical
activity in my day keep it so that I'm
not like becoming a vegetable through
the day and then eating my dinner and
you know then just never actually
burning anything I guess but certainly
sounds like a good thing to be standing
up every now and again yep standing
studio that is part of it yeah yeah it
syncs with pairs with an iOS or Android
device we're asking about like does it
have the SmartWatch capabilities it does
get push notifications I saw I set up
Twitter and saw a couple of
notifications come in I saw Gmail a
couple of different apps the one that I
didn't see in the app to be able to push
to push to the to the watch is discord
which was kind of disappointing because
that's really my main communication
through my small screen though two
people have read emails okay or texts so
what I do is I go to
the text mode and then I just hold in
long hold okay and I can see it like
that and so then I tap for the next
screen and I got a tweet okay from from
mrs. Marsh man so that's actually
showing on my SmartWatch okay SmartWatch
fitness tracker yeah so you you call
that a SmartWatch you can answer your
calls just by tapping your phone it'll
show you the call my kana or does it
know it connects to your phone yes yeah
it's a controller but it'll show me the
caller ID on my wrist
it'll it'll buzz so if I've got a
meeting it'll buzz like vibration and I
can look at it and it'll show me who's
calling and then I can tap it to answer
well so far it only arrived today okay
with mine yes because you want to wear
it while you're sleeping so you can't
charge it overnight just charge it when
you're in the shower that's what I do
yeah makes sense don't wear it in the
shower they this is waterproof they call
it but they say don't submerge it in hot
water like it's fine if you're in the
rain or getting your hands wet or if
you're in the bath and not submerging it
it is waterproof to a certain depth but
you're not supposed to dive with it that
kind of stuff so I would just keep it
out of the water for the most part and
there's no charger for it it just you
just unhook the case or the strap and it
plugs directly into a USB port wonderful
so there's no like port or anything to
charge it any other facts about this I
mean that's really it I did find though
if you do purchase this same one at
count five dot TV slash tracker the
instruction set has you scan a QR code
to get the app and when you do that it
downloads an apk for a Chinese version
of the app Wow so some like what how am
I supposed to do this I couldn't find
out it change the language but it is in
the Play Store so forget about the
instruction manual just grab the app
called hero band 2 and it's spelt hero
band 1 RI I all one word no spaces in
that and that's in Google Play I'm using
Android I assume it's gonna be the same
app name and so will that's what you are
health app like at Google fit or
I mean yeah it has its own app okay and
so this is where the I cuz I wanted to
ask you guys the question why is it
worth 300 bucks other than it's gorgeous
like mine looks like a cheap watch book
but I wanted to ask that question but
one one answer already came to me yes in
that the app for this yep
will use data from that correct the app
from this will not use data from this
correct so the cheap watch doesn't pair
doesn't synchronize data between various
devices and I can tell you on my the the
one the one thing that would keep me
from buying that watch is yes you can't
really connect with community because I
mean motivation of competition you can
create teams and things like that
I have friends it would be people only
with that watch yeah perhaps yeah so
Fitbit is a bigger community yeah so if
you're looking to be competitive you
know how many steps did you get you know
that way now I'm just going to trust you
I can't right I see
so yeah so like when you look at mine
like it has I can see it this is
gorgeous like it has a bezel around the
Sun it looks puzzles yeah I can move
with my finger so it's little features
like that I mean it's obviously a bigger
screen apps yeah like I can go through
my contacts list I can add specific can
I gonna use my phone to show those at
home what it is that you're actually
showing me here yeah so let me just turn
so you're not getting the yeah there we
go there you go so like you know that'll
give me some of my health stats I rotate
through there's different apps yeah I
can add certain activities yeah on the
fly be per minute checks the weather yep
so like there's so much more different
I can set specific alarms so for 300
bucks you've got that is a really smart
walk later music your hair I could do
phone calls three okay yeah sure that's
the real and even like with the sleep
you can see here yeah like it'll tell
you how long your sleep how well the all
that kind of stuff like it's at night
mode different things I could do phone
calls from this yeah so that I don't
actually have to pick
oh okay you talking to your watch that
Maxwell Smart yeah nice so it's you know
you could do a lot more with this yeah
okay alright so mine by contrast and I
do want to show you the screen so that
you can see that it's kind of nice
yet is color you're gonna hold the phone
sure do you mind
sure thank you sir so when I'm talking
about this I'm just there you go
so I've got my steps calories calories
how many miles I've walked beats per
minute right now see how the screens not
bad different modes you got different
themes that you can use so if I hold
long press and I can change the theme
okay right so it's pretty basic but I
like that yep yeah so but it does the
tracking that sensors on the back that
are gonna help me to be able to track
those things right now I will say the
one thing that will set my watch apart
from yours mm-hmm EKGs be the actual
beats like your heartbeat are you graph
yeah which for me is somebody who has
angina it's a big deal because whenever
I have those like fake heart attack
symptoms mmm you can't track that like
if you out of heart if you have a heart
attack there's markers that show up
after the fact
angina doesn't and so what I like about
this is with the EKG sensor that's
something that will pop up on the fly so
it's like yep you're having one of those
it's like okay now okay it makes sense
so mine has something called a PPK a PPG
what's that no clue an ECG measures the
electrical activity of the heart using
multiple electrical sensors by contrast
a PPG is an optical measurement of
arterial volume which uses a single
light based sensor okay so it shows my
beats in a bar graph or in a graph but
yeah it's not like beep-beep-beep
beep-beep-beep it's nothing like that
it's showing it's like a graph of how
many beats per minute when it logs at
every five
seconds it looks like okay so cool yeah
a little bit years is obviously more
sophisticated and you pay for it well
exactly I was 300 bucks
yeah boxing day versus oh it was a steal
Wow mine was a steal it was 40 bucks
