it's time for today's coffee break
thanks for joining me
I see Sabu on the top left and gwg on
the bottom right well I don't see so you
guys don't have cameras speaking of
seeing you can kind of see that I've got
more packing done here at Studio just
thing to say hello I saw you hey we've
got nine days left to the category five
Kickstarter don't forget to go to cap
five TV slash kick if you haven't
checked it out yet see if it's something
that you'd like to support I know it's a
weird time right now for everybody not a
great time to be asking people to
contribute to something like this but
hey we're community and category 5 is
going to be on the air from our new
studio we're moving in six days yeah I
will repeat something there first launch
kit so yesterday I paid all my bills for
this so now I can there pitchin
often thank you
and I think I will be amusing the
monomers I'm not going to create an
account so maybe I will get a link or
something to prove yeah if you do if you
do the Kickstarter as a guest then
you'll still I believe I imagine you
still receive the perks like it it's
still it still will email you and
everything so and some people have asked
about supporting the Kickstarter without
going through Kickstarter and and I can
certainly help with that if you want to
contribute via PayPal or something like
that just make sure you pop me an email
or a DM or something and let me know who
you are so that I can send you the perks
manually because I'm happy to do that as
well if you don't want to be on the
Kickstarter platform
well hey hi Bill are you doing good
yourself a week that's a start
I pulled the song away I fell asleep oh
yes this is how we pass the time in
quarantine this nap if I didn't have all
this work to do exactly yeah
all this work sitting back swinging a
giant cup of coffee this is for one this
is my coffee break I've been waiting all
day for this I've been here packing all
day long
fortunately they still have apocalyptic
sized coffees at Starbucks so that helps
they're just doing the drive-through I
guess they're still letting people come
in for takeout but they're not letting
people sit down but I just did the
drive-through so a lot of places are
doing that yeah I did hit the grocery
store yesterday just briefly and I saw I
think it was was it soul boo was that
you that that was talking about the
markers on the floor or was that bp9 bp9
good you know I haven't mentioned that
yeah so they have those at the grocery
store I don't think anyone was honoring
them here but it's certainly unique yeah
I got an email from Best Buy this
morning saying that they will bring your
stuff to the door that's interesting
water it online and they'll bring it to
the door yeah I had purolator deliver
something to my work on Friday and they
left it outside um so and FedEx is is
saying no signatures required on
anything now yeah they did that too they
just drop stuff off with no signature
right yeah Robert Robert shows up just
to just to show off that he's in the
sunny tropics
somebody has to be it's cold here I was
coming in though and there were spring
songbirds outside my door which kind of
up lifted my spirits a little bit yeah
it got chilly here - supposed to get wet
snow tomorrow yeah so what is everybody
doing what's everybody doing the past
time like you guys doing any projects
sir well I've been cleaning mm-hmm well
I was away for two months so I came back
just time for a pandemic yay
yeah welcome back you got back gwg so
well we sent somebody after me my
employer and about 48 hours after she
got there they announced that they were
not allowing people from Europe to enter
the United States so even though that
would not affect her because citizens
were allowed in she was worried they
would cancel all the flights so she ran
back yeah so as of now my entire company
is on something of a lockdown and
they've given everybody a pay cut always
fun yeah that's right for me well again
I'll survive as long as it doesn't last
incredibly long but yeah yeah I think so
many people are in that boat and a lot
of people have been laid off as well
- enough me and they're saying here in
the US what's that Robert okay is this
on not very good let's try it was just a
little quiet that's all okay yeah
they're saying two and a half million
applied last week here in the US free
eye for unemployment yeah yeah
I hope things go okay for me there's no
really like we're in a services business
I do the past two well the past week has
been a lot of modifying people's
websites is what I've been spending a
lot of my time doing making pop-ups
models that say whether or not they're
still open during this and so I think as
a services company I think we'll be okay
it's just if they shut us down we'll be
working from home and that poses some
interesting challenges but at least we
live in a time when the technology is
there that we can we can do that yeah my
problem is is if we prove that we can
work remotely they'll dump it to another
country oh you know which they already
started you know our lot of our support
staffs in Guatemala now Wow some of the
stuff you don't even think of mm-hmm
I ran it I ran a call I run a call
center in the UK and we had similar
issues everything was outsourced to
India and after a few years they took
most of it back unless it was somebody
of the big guys like BT and so on but
everybody else took it back because the
service was really bad they cannot they
cannot operate on the same level we do
over here no no no we can't did I
mention that they two months that I
spent in Bulgaria involved setting up an
office which included a call center
no gwg oh my so well if you know the
state of where they are at right now
better off than we are the the other
group that I set up back in 2018 who
also has a call center component ISM the
Philippines and they're on lockdown so
yeah yeah Robbie if you yes bill I'm
looking at that picture you got there it
looks like you got the Dalek doing all
the work now
Jef jokingly said the you know once the
Daleks show up we're in trouble so I
thought I'll put it on camera yeah I've
got a lot done guys like I'm really down
to the nitty-gritty today I disconnected
the server and pulled all the cables and
everything and then reconnected it with
just very very basic wiring just so that
the everything can still be online but
without it I could pack away all the
surge protectors and things like that it
looks neat
get in there lots of work did you get
the ladder and get that done I got the
ladder but I you can see if you look at
the the wide shot of the studio there
you can see the wire hanging down from a
wise can pan right that's in the middle
of the room so I'm not going to do that
as per your suggestion I'm not going to
get up on the ladder until I've got
someone here to spot me however the the
stuff that's in corners or along the
wall so like our surveillance cameras
the CCTV I did I did put a ladder like
just a stepstool and with the support of
the wall I pulled all the CCTV down
today but anything that's not safe for
me to do without a spotter I left it as
it is
so I'll get I'll get those when I've got
someone else here but yeah I'll probably
pull down this drape here too within the
next couple days that's just a couple of
staples around the edge so I'll use a
step stool for that but again I've got
the wall there to protect me yes a
ladder is an evil of engine some reason
that I can't see my own video feed we
can't see your own video feed either
solder yeah it's dark there Robert what
are what are you up to these days with
all the lockdown and you're just
enjoying I'm poised I'm I mean I'm
i've Kryptos that's what I'm doing so so
you're are you trading right now no I've
never I never trade trade this I'm not a
traitor trade is too dangerous I tried
that in 2017 and I lost almost
everything
no I'm learning at the moment pison oh
cool yeah as he sits in his shirtsleeves
in the green tree area you know sorry
about that
yeah it's coming okay what about
yourself sold me what are you been up to
- to pass the time you're mentioning
you're very fortunate to have gotten
your house when you did yeah I don't
think the housing market is I think it's
what housing market appeared in a week I
think this is and it's a long dream for
me and I think that God would me and
knowing that if I did them it would
never happen so you have debated there
coming somewhere I think I would like
this house share cheaper but good above
my own flat
true true yeah you'd be stuck with both
how's the house the market in in Toronto
doing for example is that how's the
outlook Robert I don't really keep track
of it I don't watch it but and and I've
been busy with this but I know Toronto
was pretty much on lockdown like they've
shut down all major services other than
emergency services and that's kind of
that's that I mean the housing market
other prices going up or down or that's
what I don't know I just can't imagine
that anyone is buying or selling right
now like a you wouldn't want to be
holding an open house that's for sure
yeah so I I can't imagine it's doing
anything I I don't I don't have any
facts to back that up it's just
I know that things are pretty like
they've pretty well dropped off here and
Barry I wouldn't want to be looking for
a house right now leave under view John
and see if everything was not connected
when I joined anything so okay that's
okay I'm gonna do these coffee breaks
I'm gonna try to do these each day you
don't all have to show up every day I
just want to be here for the community I
want to set this up so that our
community can join once per day through
the course of the pandemic and and just
be a bit of a respite from the media
that we're we're all subjected to right
now chance for us to just hang out and
have a coffee so we can't do it in
person
mmm well someday I will I just want area
yeah yeah same here
well hey you'll all get to see studio E
once once you come and see us that'll be
a nice spot and in two hours I have a
bit of a major problem to deal with
oh yeah my parents have decided to come
from Florida decided they're better off
horn teaming at their residence in New
York and staying and they can find space
in Florida are they gonna let them come
into New York yeah a plane I'll just put
them under a mandatory lockdown kind of
thing nope
remember in New York can't stop anybody
interstate travel is a federal problem
for the government and they haven't
stopped domestic travel right now yeah
so I need a state say it's a bit
different here in Canada because at the
border they're stopping tourist travel I
mean I'm sorry between provinces oh no
between America and Canada yeah but
remember Florida is also in America so
it's only its domestic yes yeah for you
now
here in Canada if you were coming back
from Florida you'd be put into a
mandatory quarantine yeah there are
plenty of people in their building from
Ontario yeah and when is that happening
a couple hours what the quarantine or
the arrival of my parents the arrival
at that twenty four thousand five
hundred feet estimated twenty five
minutes into the flight estimated two
hours nine minutes remaining till
arrival at LaGuardia Airport where I
will come up with my mask in my gloves
and transport them to their apartment
which I have Lysol for them Wow so they
they'll they'll beat the eight o'clock
cutoff oh yes the governor proposed
starting at 8:00 p.m. that non-essential
travel so that's that pushed their
decision and other than that I'm as of
Friday where they made me go to the
office I can't go to the office on
Monday hmm I will be sitting at this
exact same desk which you can see in
this video
there's my hello there your yeah oh yeah
well my problem is that I never quite
get the angle right it keeps falling my
monitor is right about there so if I can
either look at the camera or look at all
of you and I thought it was more polite
to look at all of you but either way in
my industry everything shutting down
what industry are you in transportation
oh yeah I called the moving truck
company that just reminded me I called
the moving truck company just out of
fear that we're not gonna be able to get
our moving truck on Saturday and they
said they're basically considered an
essential service because a lot of
stores are using their rental trucks for
moving product hmm
so so he has every confidence we're
still gonna have a truck for the move hi
bp9 welcome to the coffee break what
would your current landlords
say if you couldn't move the stuff
because of the situation either you know
I don't even want to think about that
yeah I really don't want to think about
that but you lied it was a very nice
individual even if he's kicking you out
in a short period of time I am a very
nice individual and so the things that I
imply are based on me being nice oh man
I'll take it I'll take the patient yeah
but I'm here they put a moratorium on
eviction so you can't that makes sense
it'd be really hard to be a landlord
though yeah like if you're not making
money and you still have to pay for
people to be living in your flats let's
be in that position
well I'm 100 percent sure that my
landlord will not evict me
yeah namely because I'm picking my
landlord up at the airport in two hours
well parents retired to Florida they
rented me the apartment below there so
the reason I've been disinfecting is
that they live on the floor above me
oh that's great and they own the
building so Wow wonderful not that big
building they're only three apartments
and if it's just a multi-family yeah
well better when they went to Florida
for the entire winter having somebody
keep an eye on it and I don't compare to
complain about shoe print yeah that's
great good set up high BP nine yeah okay
so you couldn't see me at least anyway
right yeah I can yeah we can see in here
yeah this time oh my oh wow I did fix
and audio issues nice yeah what's going
on today but the the camera is the
camera light is so it's doing something
maybe a different app has grabbed
control of the camera that could happen
Skype or so no one can make me a to you
spike
rather than using a Linux box are you
using that I had the same problem I
named it did resolve it I don't know
what's going on so I ended up switching
to my my phone yeah that's what I'm
doing here is I'm using my phone just
because it makes it so simple and then I
can use the Bluetooth headset as well I
don't know so that that makes it tough I
don't know what are you bill what are
you using right now I am on my road h2
running via wonderful sure because boom
conference isn't looking for a cheap way
to do it yeah that's cool I love that
bill is using an SBC for it I've been
using any Android based TV device but
the even though the camera can hit is a
Logitech which should have a higher
resolution the things seems to downscale
so I've been looking for an alternative
or this is when I go to a conference and
set up a room with something so people
can remotely participate yeah that's
cool so anybody ever has any suggestions
zoom works well mm-hmm well no the zoom
isn't the problem it's the hardware the
hardware is what we've been using for
since we gave up on hangouts due to its
lack of future I switched to Skype and
then I've since switched to zoom since
Microsoft basically destroyed Skype well
as of now I'm looking for how do I set
up three inexpensive boxes that can be
part of a zoom room except the logitech
camera and require very little in terms
of controls once it's set up because the
people in the room want to use the
entire screen to see who are remoting in
right bill the h2 is a little bit over
the top but do you think it could be
done on like a rock 64 or something I
don't see you going on yeah just Debian
on a rock 64
Rocko 64 if you can yeah and then it was
very simple yeah I didn't really do
anything and I just worry about maxing
out the processor on some of them but
I'm not maxing out the processor on I
think it's a media tech in the Android
device i bought for 30 bucks but i'd
imagine that the the rock 64 is more
than $30 yeah probably
once you get the accessories and the
power and case and everything for it -
they're cheap cell phones I mean you can
get a cell phone for 50 bucks or so yeah
but you can jack it into a real monitor
most of them you know what I don't know
if a user or not I'm I'm using my cell
phone for the first time and it's great
and I don't need a monitor I'm sitting
outside so yeah I monitor yeah but I'm
trying to do it with a room full of
people connecting people remotely but
I'll just show you gwg so even though
I'm looking at the phone here over every
time I glance over here can you guys see
so I can so this this is HDMI you could
point this out to a projector TV is that
coming out of the phone though
no the phone is my camera but this is
just this is the one that I create the
meeting on in zoom so I can push record
yeah I'm looking for something that
could do both there's nothing no need to
do handle the recording that can be done
remotely it's just to make sure that I
connect one roomful of people to
everybody who's promoting it hmm so it's
one of those things what I have works
well enough now but again it keeps down
raising the audio and it does crash
every so often so I make look but right
now I'm not going to be buying any
things I think in-person conferences are
currently not something I should be
investing in it yeah true enough well
it's a good time to be asking
communities hey what's the best way to
do group chat everybody's doing it now
well I'm pretty well set up again just
for the single this is just the group
thing that I do every few months and
yeah again the next one scheduled for
June and who knows what that's gonna
happen
the good thing about this is that now
all the video solutions are really
putting being and the people are going
to discover a lot of solutions and that
is finding out what solutions who
absolutely just suck my concern with
setting it up good what were you gonna
say Bell you're my concern with with
setting it up with on the h2 with Debian
was the logic tech camera I didn't know
the logic tech would work I got a c920
and it worked immediately just work box
not yeah it looks great
well the 920 is also have some hardware
decoding which is why you'd want to use
them so hopefully make it a little
easier on the processor inside and I
have the one that I'm coming in on now
is a 920 and I thought the room camera
here the wide shot of the room is also a
920 there that's I'm not fighting the
problem is the cameras right above the
monitor and I keep knocking it off
mostly because I converted this to a
standing desk so every time I come it's
a manual standing desk every time I
crank it up the camera gets out of
alignment right oh yeah I said we can
see you now there he is I have a light
yes someday I will master video
production I think what was it like oh
who said we both have faces for radio
certainly true in my case
[Laughter]
so I finally got me you're working and
wonderful yay various I see you got your
drum kit set up sold ooh yeah how are
you doing that I like it real well
[Music]
just next to the dining room by the way
this is the this is where I usually
watch the the regular cat5 video go my
TV and it has a laptop in the section X
that I used to have ot go and I have a
plex plug-in on it because a friend of
mine have a nexus or running at home and
here he is the one who lost 44 terabytes
of data because of the it turns out it
was a controller that failed and if you
had just replaced control the card oh no
God so you went through all that
rigmarole thinking it was a drive issue
yeah as part of his job is fixing rate
there were problems as a part with work
and here and then five out of the then
half the drives whether a him maybe you
should try an another controller card so
he had to fork out I think he used
thousand dollars for new card so I try
very hard to make all of my arrays
Hardware agnostic and if I can't do that
I at least have a backup like the
category-five studio here it's
controller specific our server but I
have an external drive that has two
drives in a raid array and he's also a
Hardware agnostic but here he has
how many um it was a big array so you
wouldn't be able to back that up like
I've got like a six team arrives Wow
eight drives he has a hundred and ten
terabytes of total storage yeah Wow
when this problem started he had there
only forty four terabytes and it is
almost completely full over TV and I've
done a ripping project so I will
probably fill mine up and have to
upgrade it at some point but I think I'm
going until I run out of space right now
remember when no one was gonna need more
than the Commodore 64 K that reminds me
of the famous gate statement that the
640 cage would be enough for everyone
what most people do not understand is
that at the time he said that the normal
RAM size was 64 K he had 640 K for a few
years that was you know for everyone but
you know I always thought his statement
was 64 K not 640 K it was six forty yes
yeah back then that was like extended
memory and I remember trying to push
that envelope as soon as like well we
were using like QE mm 386 and all that
kind of stuff to make it work I can top
that I started working with punch cards
my dad used to work with punch cards we
used to go when I was a kid we used to
go to his office for Christmas the
Christmas party and our gifts always had
our name and punch card on them as the
tag I didn't use punch cards but I did
have to use coding sheets for COBOL
programs spec industry we had a colas
and worry about going yeah my dad had a
speech in in a History Society
Association in in the states I think
this was 20 years ago about the history
of Linux and he started way back when
his father got the first computer
Sinclair something what a civics ID or
something I don't remember and he said
and he because he was explaining why he
started doing Linux and you know the
Quran because all the computers he had
in Finland he he for some reason elected
computer that was powerful but there was
the only way you can get software that
didn't come with a machine was to buy
software from the UK yeah back in 1980
and it has to be mailed by the post and
it could take a month to get that and it
was expensive and and so he started
doing his own thing and he learned how
to program and he said once that he was
doing what he thought was much he
programmed it in machine language what
he thought was assembler because he he
wrote the ones and zeros did that for
two years before so I explained to him
that he needed needed a compiler so a
friend of mine did the same thing on a
CPM machine he was writing literally the
machine code in hex and then he would he
wrote utilities in CPM that would then
assemble up all that or linked up all
that memory and bring it all up into
each of the individual pages that he
wrote codeine he would come he would
punch them all together
munch being a very technical word right
everything would bring them all together
and basically linked them up and I told
him at the time you know what you've
done I said you've written in the same
place yeah I realize that now and a
leader but he wrote it all from scratch
yeah I think our our zoom meeting is
about to end unfortunately we are
limited for time but what I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna do my best to hold these
coffee breaks once a day around the same
time around noon now it's gonna be a
little more difficult for me through the
week because I am gonna be working
unless they close down but I'll be here
on I'll post if the time changes but
otherwise I'm gonna aim for 12 o'clock
noon so if you'd like to join us
that's great I DEP that I'll be able to
join you during the week Rubby because
although I'll be working from home I
will be working day we are all need a
coffee break though yeah but I'm in
Central Time so I live in a clock my
time it's noon your time so you know
doesn't doesn't quite work it's 5:00
p.m. it's five o'clock somewhere yeah
yeah yeah all right gang well we'll see
you again very soon if you can't be here
throughout the week just know that we're
wishing all the best and to good health
and safety for everybody take care take
care of
