here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
researchers at security firm in desert
say that they've discovered an advanced
piece of linux malware that is escape
detection by antivirus products and
appears to be actively used in targeted
attacks
effective immediately flying drones in
canada without a license could mean
fines of one thousand dollars for
recreational users and five thousand
dollars for commercial users the
australian national university has
fallen victim to a fresh breach in which
intruders gained access to significant
amounts of data stretching back 19 years
and look at Robocop is already starting
to think scammers who use dating sites
to trick people into handing over cash
are being spotted using artificial
intelligence these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories of
the slave Linux bias I'm Ashley Rickman
and here the top stories were following
this week researchers at security firm
and Tesser say that they've discovered
an advanced piece of in Linux malware
that is escaped detection by antivirus
products and appears to be actively used
in targeted attacks hidden wasp as the
malware has been dubbed is a fully
developed suite of malware that includes
a Trojan rootkit and initial deployment
script at the time and Tesoro sweat live
the virus total malware malware service
indicated hidden wasp wasn't detected on
any of the 59 antivirus engines it
tracks although some have begun have now
begun to flag it timestamps in one of
the 10 files and Tesser analyzed
indicated it was created last month some
of the evidence analyzed including codes
showing that the computers it infects
are already compromised by the same
attackers indicated that hidden wasp is
likely a later stage of malware that
gets served to targets of interests who
have already been infected by an earlier
stage it's not clear how many computers
have been infected or how any earlier
related stages get installed we
the ability to download and execute code
up blue upload files and perform a
variety of other commands the purpose of
the malware appears to be to remotely
control the computers and in facts
that's different from most linux malware
which exists to perform denial of
service attacks or mine cryptocurrency
one of the files uploaded to virus total
a bash script that appears to have been
used for testing purposes led and hazard
researchers to a different file the new
file included the username and password
for accounts that appear to have already
been added to give attackers persistent
access this evidence LED entire to
believe the malware gets installed on
machines that attackers have already
compromised
it's common for advanced malware to come
in two or more stages in an attempt to
keep infections from being detected and
to prevent unintended damage both a clam
AV and ESET nod32 antivirus for Linux
are able to detect the malware
interesting so I was just under this
idea that malware just doesn't exist
root Linux epic it's perfect we do kind
of have that almost complacency yeah and
that comes from the fact that most Linux
users are not running as root or to put
it into Windows terms administrator
right right so if you got a malware
infection it's probably going to only
impact the user that you're currently
running as and so therefore malware
developers have not really focused on
Linux because of the fact that they can
only gain access as that user right but
that said we now live in a world where a
lot of Linux servers are online and have
shared user access and some of those
shared users have access to shared
resources so you get a wordpress site
for example who's who's using a caching
software that they're able to compromise
through an SQL injection
through an SQL injection and can then
download this malware and that malware
can then become part of that system and
in that user space so it may not gain
root level access administrator access
but it has access to the the user level
so then you get the situation where okay
you've got malware that can propagate
into websites and file systems and and
other files within a system and you may
not even know that it's happening right
well I mean if antivirus isn't seeing it
then how really would you know right and
because it's multi-tiered so you think
about this and you think well why would
they have it sent out in stages so if I
gave you something that here's a virus
we'll say we'll call it a virus but
really now we're yeah so here's a piece
of malware take this from me okay and
you think that that's pretty benign but
then this grows into this so now this is
this thing okay and then your mouth
anti-malware comes along or antivirus
for lack of a modern term your antivirus
says oh that's malware so let's destroy
that get rid of it right now because
it's multi-tiered multi it still lives
over there it's still over here this is
the piece that's actually active in
doing something the red hair that is the
decoy yeah but it's also the deployment
mechanism right so now we've got
something over here that's running that
the mount anti-malware can't detect
because it's actually a caused by that
thing that it can detect right right so
now this thing's running this thing's
doing all kinds of things to your system
and you don't even know that it's
happening because the anti-malware
already got rid of phase one and didn't
even know about phase two so that's kind
of the scenario where hey it's detected
they've figured out something that is a
result of something else now is it
typical that some antivirus companies
may not be able to find or see something
in a scan
until after like because this seems kind
of new right so now they know about it
everybody will be able to detect it
right everybody's jumping on that yeah
right
and anything like it is that the way it
works is it yeah heuristics do play into
it so eristic being a mechanism to read
the how would you say to read the
intentions of a program okay so to
understand so eristic s-- look at a
program and figure out what does this
program do and if this program does
something that's no quizzical yeah or
somehow possibly malicious then maybe we
need to flag that and so then eristic
says let's send that to our detection
Center and then the detection Center is
when real people get involved and they
say so free set this is slovakia's
office or quebec Sophos and says okay
we're gonna look into this code that it
is now sent us and we're gonna
investigate this and see what it's
actually doing and figure out if it's
benign or if it is in fact malicious and
this is where Kaspersky got into trouble
because Kaspersky software was running
in government offices in the United
States and it grabbed hold of NSA
software that was being used by the NSA
in order to infiltrate citizens
computers so of course the NSA says well
that's us where the government and we
have every right mmm the anti-malware
says this is malware yeah and so then
all of a sudden the government of
America says Kaspersky is out of the
store shelves right do you know what I
mean like so so you got to see the big
picture and and that's exactly what
happens in these kinds of cases but it's
interesting and I don't know whether am
I alone in my feeling like duty to do
Linux is untouchable you know I just
automatically assume Linux is very much
touchable yes especially in a world that
we live in where
social engineering is a big concern
because whether you're on Windows Linux
Mac it doesn't matter if you are tricked
into thinking that that email is
legitimate and I need to follow that
link and enter my password all of a
sudden that's the human component no
amount of antivirus can protect you from
that so you know there are anti-phishing
programs that will protect you against
those types of infiltrations but who
stops the phone calls who stops those
infiltrations or the malicious adware
right and when I say adware I mean like
going on to a website and an
advertisement pops up that seems
legitimately to say your computer is
infected click here to inoculate your
you know whatever or the email that says
here's your password I know your
password and therefore send me Bitcoin
right I've hacked your computer right
know you hacked Bell Canada back in 2016
and gained access to their entire
database of users and now you have all
of their usernames and passwords right
true story and so with that information
now with that data I can now take it to
Sasha and say haha you're a bail user
yeah here's your password I've hacked
your computer I know your password and
so it convinces me social engineering it
tricks me into thinking oh yeah that is
my password I better give you money so I
had better they obviously have hacked my
computer right no they hacked bail right
and they will only need this money one
time yeah no it's all the trick folks
yeah along that vein
have I been owned is a great service
that will help you to determine in those
kinds of cases whether or not your email
account or other accounts have been
compromised on third party sites and
this is exactly why we warn don't use
the same password on this site and that
site and this site if you use the same
password as your online banking and your
Twitter account on Joe schmo's forum and
then Joe schmo's forum gets hacked
and now the hackers have access to that
username and password right what are
they gonna do they're going to try all
of the Twitter the bank yeah they're
gonna send you an email and say I've got
your password and I've hacked your
computer
send me Bitcoin right right and you're
gonna say oh that is my real password
they know my password obviously they
have legitimately hacked me use the same
password on multiple sites on multiple
services that's just common sense at
this point the only reiterate the only
way not to use the same password on
different sites is to have a password
manager because truly I mean cuz we're
not doing the password 123 password 1 2
3 4 right password Twitter 1 except not
doing that we need to use a password
manager for sure right
so do that are you doing that I am 60%
of the way there in other words she
knows what she's supposed to do and
she's not doing it I am I'll do it folks
you're almost there I'm almost there
she's not there please don't hack me but
if you get an email that says here's
your password just know that it's
probably not but I'm just gonna call you
yeah effective immediately flying drones
in Canada without a license could mean
fines of $1,000 for recreational users
and $5,000 for commercial users there
are two types different two different
types of licenses now offered by
Transport Canada basic and advanced the
basic category is meant for people who
never fly in controlled airspace or
within 30 meters horizontally of
bystanders
the basic category requires passing a
$10 online exam registering with
Transport Canada marking the drone with
its registration number and carrying the
pilot certificate whenever the drone is
in use the advanced category requires
all of the above plus an in-person
flight review and special permission
from air traffic controllers whenever
flying in controlled airspace users must
be 14 years of age or older to
the basic exam and they must be sixteen
years of age or older to take the
advanced exam drones that weigh under
250 grams are exempt from licensing and
those that weigh more than 25 kilograms
have their own set of rules Transport
Canada also reminds pilots that drones
need to be flown where the pilot can see
them at all times below 122 meters at
least 5.6 kilometers away from airports
and no less than one point nine
kilometers up from heliports okay so
that's all kind of comments a common
sensical in that I think to myself if
you're flying a drone you have to be
responsible for it right like you just
because there are people out there just
not doing the safe practices right so
you're stirring it makes sense to me and
I think it kind of alludes to the fact
that we as we want to fly drones need to
start with the toy drones yes so if you
if you have that desire and it's a lot
of fun it's a lot of fun to fly drones
mm-hmm and we're using that just so you
know we're used no term drones but that
covers and we're talking about benign
quadcopter helicopters those kinds of
toys and consumer can commercial devices
we're not talking about mechanisms of
war or anything like that now we're
talking about things that we would fly
in our local park for fun yeah so that
that in mind if you are feeling that
inkling to want to fly a quadcopter a
drone then start with something that is
under 250 grams so that makes sense I
mean that's that's on a lot of levels
because if you're new at flying one you
probably don't want to crash an
expensive one that's that's true too in
and of itself and it is tricky to fly
and and you have to you have to be able
to get it your head around the spatial
nests of flying a quadcopter right I
mean when I first was starting to fly it
was difficult to learn the fact that
because I'm used to remote-control cars
right and remote-control cars you can
always see the direction that it is
traveling
a drone you cannot always see the
direction that is traveling it can
sometimes be very disorienting because
up might be down the left might be right
it depends on which way it's oriented it
depends on what mode you're flying in
whether you're flying in headless mode
or not and whether you're flying with
the GPS or not I mean there's so many
different variables so learn on
something that's under 250 grams it's a
toy right and we don't say that don't
think of a toy as a kid's thing it's not
the kids drone it's we've got to learn
how to fly safely before we're ready for
that next step right and then I think it
makes sense that people have to read
through a set of rules and maybe take a
taste probably need to pass if you're in
Canada only ten dollars and that's not
so bad
my biggest drone is about one and a half
kilograms and it can hurt if it it can
really hurt I had it happen once where I
I had a hard landing and I didn't kill
the engines and I and I I screwed up I
made a mistake okay
and it was upside down and so I ran up
to it and it was upside down but what I
didn't realize is that the motors were
still intending to fly oh so when I
grabbed a hold of the landing gear I
think I grabbed it with one hand because
I had only I had the other hand on the
controller oh and I grabbed the landing
gear on the ground with one hand and I
picked up and this is a big like a think
of a phantom 3 or something like that
from DJI and and because it was in
flight flight mode it immediately
righted itself so when I picked it up it
went and started spinning at about a
million rpms and sliced my arm one of
the one of the propellers hit my arm and
sliced it so like that was a real
learning experience and I was like
I learned the hard way that you do not
grab a drone that is presumably offline
but is not from upside down and just
think that you can pick it up right
don't yes you know now had you taken a
$10 course or $10 test my faculty would
cover that maybe it would be in a
multiple-choice but I did realize that
maybe I'm not as proficient as I thought
I might be right I definitely realize
that hey I'm still a rookie I'm still
learning by mistake and that could have
been worse I mean it could have been one
of my kids run up and grab it it was me
and I was on my own and so you know that
was good but it give me a good Nick on
the arm yeah and I was bleeding and
everything you know so I'll never do it
again and so you know it's it's like
okay let's let's learn on something's a
little safer something that's a lot
lighter weight because when you get into
that kind of weight like one and a half
kilograms and it has power right it
flipped itself like I had no control
over it when it flipped itself over
something that was a toy I absolutely
could have had control over I could have
just grabbed it and picked it up and the
the propellers could have been spinning
and I would have been just like huh it's
spinning you know like I would have had
the control over something more like
large and powerful I I didn't have the
control over it so you know that's a bit
of a learning experience for me I've
always found it interesting I would love
to use a drone to you know examine like
the inside of some of the caves and some
of the hiking trails and stuff that huh
right but then at the same time I think
to myself well if a drone had a camera
on it wouldn't it be great to like go to
an outdoor concert and get closer but
then that's been closed to people
exactly that's so dangerous and and I
would I would see all of the steps on
how that could end in disaster
but perhaps others wouldn't and now if
you have to have it registered then you
can trace it back to somebody who has
yes hurt someone with a drone at it well
and presumably by registering your drone
so having a registration mark labeled on
the drone yeah if you did lose it
hopefully you'd be able to recover it
I have almost lost my drone my big drone
once well and it actually kind of put me
off a flight it really kind of scared me
away from flight because sometimes they
can pick up signals from nearby
interference right and to have your
drone all of a sudden take off you know
that's it's scary that's $600 driver
flying away from you your GPS is wrong
listen to me please so you know
hopefully maybe catching your number
into it would help you to be able to
recover one of those yeah at least get
you insurance on it or yeah there the
the top-ranked University said that it
noticed about two weeks ago that hackers
have accessed staff visitor and student
data including names addresses dates of
birth phone numbers personal email
addresses emergency contact details tax
file numbers payroll information bank
account details and passport details
it said the breach took place in late
2018 the same year it fest up to another
lengthy attack academic records were
also accessed university officials say
quote the systems at that store credit
card details travel information medical
records police checks workers
compensation vehicle registration
numbers and some performance records
have not been affected and quote the
news comes less than a year after the
school admitted its network has been hit
by a month-long attack at the time the
university said that it had been working
in partnership with Australian
government agencies for several months
to fend off the attack Vice Chancellor
Brian Schmidt admitted that if the
university had not made upgrades last
year in the wake of the early 2018
attacks this most recent breach
would have gone undetected schmidt
describes the attacker as a
sophisticated operator and said the
university has no evidence that research
work has been affected hmm so so what
makes me giggle about that it's like
there's just huge long list of the
things that have been compromised and
they retaliated by yes let me tell you
what hasn't been compromised oh but did
you know this hasn't been like that yeah
you're our logs of the janitorial
service has not been calm down musty its
safety yeah
thank you account information however we
live in a very interesting time a very
dangerous time where we're still we have
a lot of people working in the industry
that are still based on the old mindset
a lot of people who still think we do we
don't need firewall we just we just need
antivirus no hello when was the last
time you heard of a virus outbreak when
it comes to computers think about that
for a second and then you start to
realize holy cow I natus back in the
1990s that was huge boot sector viruses
huge but these days when was the last
time you heard of a real outbreak of
viruses so then you get into the old
mindset of thinking okay well we only
need antivirus we don't need firewall
and ransomware protection and anti
anti-malware and he data theft
we don't need enterprise inspector or
you know the end point and end point
detection and things like that yeah
these are not these are not new trends
Sasha right these are not new things
that the anti-malware or the antivirus
companies have brought out to sell you
more product you know what I mean like
the whole endpoint inspector or when you
think about the
like like enterprise monitoring and
being able to monitor packets and things
like that it's not just a trend it's not
just to sell you more product this is
because attacks have become very
sophisticated right and they've become
so that antivirus won't detect it right
I mean we just learned that but like
even Linux is getting no malware and you
know it's yeah so things can go
undetected you need to be more secure
the FEU is even bringing up Baltimore in
our chat room and we're not even gonna
go there oh yeah because Baltimore is an
entire situation of you have an IT
administrator who is warning you of
these threats like am I the person who's
warning you you have these threats right
now and you're and you're thinking like
oh I don't want to spend the money
Baltimore is that we go follow up on the
Baltimore situation at some point I
would really like to know where they are
right now no wait six months and see if
they've learned their lesson yet okay
all right but then again it's like I
kind of laugh because it's like you know
I could sell you the right product but
would you pay your bills on time it's
like there's so much compounding issue
there right ah
it's tricky but when it comes to malware
and and the whole old mindset you just
can't have that mindset anymore right
and prevention is much easier than
trying to clean up the mess after the
fact you're absolutely right I say
proactive prevention proactive in that
I've set up something to be able to
detect and thwart these types of
infiltrations right at the at the
endpoint I'll be honest my website came
under attack today oh this very day it
happened and because of my proactive
measures I was alerted to this fact
before it became an issue I was able to
patch against the very thing that they
were trying to exploit
and I'm talking this is not a small
attack and sometimes this happens and
and I need to be ready for it and and
you need to be ready for it too because
it could happen to anyone
but for me so this was about 600
individual IP addresses 600 boy
individual computers attacking my
website all at once today and so I've
started
what did I do I monitored the packets I
started watching what are they trying to
do what is happening here it's not a
virus
these are scripts that are attacking
various aspects of my system right my
server they're trying to gain access to
my server essentially yeah they're
trying to install applications that will
allow them back-end access so that they
can have root level access to my server
and compromised accounts and things like
that well I'm not going to have it so of
course I'm alerted to the fact that
these things are happening and
immediately counteracting their measures
but if you're not if you're Baltimore
and you're just sitting there not paying
it's a completely complacent and to the
point of idiotic and I apologize to
anyone who is watching that is a
involved in yeah really I mean you know
you absolutely know like there have been
some serious mistakes there oh and when
it comes to cyber security like this is
just it's not a game anymore yeah now
I'm sure that it was like BOTS and stuff
Kim but it would have been yeah he
starts with BOTS right so understand
that yeah it starts with oxide and then
it develops into people paying attention
once they have access bots are created
by malicious parties in order to find
exploits once those exploits are found
those exploits are either exploited not
likely those exploits are sold right
okay if I'm an attacker what am I in it
for people say well why do people attack
money money yeah so what what are they
gonna do so if I find a Samba share at a
government office that is why dough
because they're stupid because they
still have more like because they still
have eternal blue unpatched on a server
okay this is the NSA exploit that has
compromised Baltimore and Baltimore has
oh it makes me angry Baltimore has
accused the NSA don't be stupid
this is an exploit that was revealed two
years well I'll be honest a year ago a
year ago it was it was absolutely
patched and fixed and a year in a bit
ago
ESET had already patched against eternal
blue okay so if you are still in 2019
susceptible to eternal blue that you are
doing cyber security wrong yeah okay
your fault it is absolutely your fault
so yes the NSA had to do with eternal
blue yes the NSA was utilizing eternal
blue to compromise its citizens of the
United States of America but if you are
still unpatched in 2019 against that
threat that has been patched against for
over a year then you are doing something
wrong in cyber secure on you yeah
so you can't you can't fall back on that
mm-hmm I feel bad for getting you all
riled up I'm sorry
I feel like Jeff right now I could get
riled up but the truth of the matter is
it's a serious concern and you see it
more than most so for you yeah like
you're very aware of how prevention can
save eighth a million headaches and
dollars yeah proactive prevention
exactly and that's at proactive and and
it's not even proactive anymore when it
comes to something like internal well
yeah that's that is ridiculous if you're
just figuring that out now you're behind
the times if you have Windows XP
anywhere yeah you're doing cyber
security wrong
okay okay remember that look at Robocop
is already starting to think scammers
who use dating sites to trick people
into handing over cash or being spotted
using artificial intelligence a neural
network has analyzed profiles messages
and images from real dating real dating
data to get a better to get better at
spotting fakes it sampled age gender and
ethnicity as well as the language people
use to describe themselves the results
of the research are slightly
mind-blowing the AI system proved
accurate at spotting scammers and fakes
in a whopping 93 percent of cases
computer scientists in the UK US and
Australia collaborated on the AI based
system which found that those making
fake profiles were more likely to be men
sixty percent and had an average age of
50 the system was trained using almost
15,000 profiles from a free dating
website the computer science project
used the data from the service because
it publicly posts fake profiles when
they're discovered ultimately the team
hopes to create an early warning system
that can spot scammers as they set up
accounts and begin the process of
contacting victims the researchers said
scams on dating sites and apps were hard
to tackle because they were usually not
large campaigns and were not generated
automatically the researchers suggested
their methods could be harder to get
around than some of the current
approaches which rely on black lists and
other basic technical tricks to thwart
repeat offenders they added quote we aim
to more broadly examine the available
data online on online dating fraud
seeking information actionable for
enforcement and other countermeasures
unquote how interesting that they be
using AI for this type of this is a
great protection if you will yes
especially because we know like humans
are the weakest link as far as like
protection against things like that not
that we've learned that today
and I guess it's predictable when people
are setting up face fake pat profiles
but maybe they don't realize how
predictable they're being true yeah but
isn't it interesting that they can use
AI now like AI is good enough at
detecting these types of threats that
are threats I say I'm still stuck on
threats but these types of malicious
people that are trying to compromise
again it comes back to social
engineering because they're tricking
people on dating sites into providing
financial information it could not maybe
it's not even money maybe it's just like
accidental access to their bank accounts
things you think it's stupid do you
think that it doesn't happen but it's
like definitely I can picture on a
dating site oh I see that you like dogs
what's your dog's name
yeah exactly what's your dog's name
sighs oh yeah oh okay
first password hint on the banking site
yeah right yeah I mean it's a true story
true story right those kinds of things
actually
I mean some people aren't all nerville
on data sites but people who are
vulnerable are sometimes on dating sites
so it's good that they're being given
protection yeah vulnerable I don't even
know it like vulnerable as in easily
maybe just you could you you want to
just open up to somebody what's your
dog's name
tell me about your life you want to you
know you need to interact with me bow
down open our AI is getting you and the
AI is gonna stop that nonsense
presumably the dates are gonna get a lot
better folks stop stealing your money's
just another you know cybersecurity
threat there's another one yeah that
comes up tonight but a fun news week
this has been
yeah but you don't think of it as
cybersecurity it is though it's because
social engineering is and that's where
it comes back to you know I started
talking about you know antivirus versus
anti
malware and it's like well aunty fishing
is a big deal these days the protection
against social engineering attacks is
something that is very very important
because users in a network like if
you've got a business with a hundred
people you don't have time to make sure
that everybody is smart when it comes to
social engineering attacks to the person
who says what's your dog's name yeah
well I'm on a dating site and somebody's
asking me about my life and that's
interesting
yeah and I want to interact with this
person and see if they are also
interesting what that person actually
would say instead of what's your dog's
name is like my dog's name is this and
then never ask you so that you would
like take the bait and you're like oh
yeah me and my dog she went for a walk
what's your sign babe Yeah right and
it's like okay your sign it happens to
be one of your banking questionnaire yes
I want to make sure we're not related
what was your mother's maiden name all
right jump over to coin gecko this is
what the the crypto currency market
looked like as a seventeen eighteen
hundred hours on June 5th 2019 Bitcoin
and well everything is actually down
Bitcoin has been like have you ever been
on one of those roller coasters that's
just like this yeah volatile is the the
word but it's more like just zoo zoo zoo
zoo you may as well just like draw a
bunch of squiggly lines because it's
down another nine hundred and six
dollars u.s. this week this week
litecoin is down 103 no pardon me it's
down $13.30 u.s. to 103 48 aetherium is
at 246 dollars in nine cents US and
Manero is at 86 14 again everything's
down torque is at zero point seven seven
ten thousandth of a cent and our guy
turtle coin is trailing along behind the
rat
at 0.99 10 thousandths of a cent
remember the cryptocurrency market is
always always active and volatile and
we're seeing that it is very up and down
so like I mean this week it's down $900
on a Bitcoin right so if you buy one
will it go she'll pop $900 next week
like that's what we've been seeing it's
been a thousand dollars up a thousand
dollars down dollars buying Bitcoin
you'd almost want to just get right in
on the trend and like the by themself
and buy themselves exactly
making financial advice is jokingly
saying that's what the trend and just be
watching and somehow have the
premonition to know when the down is
going to happen basically you have to be
an alien with telekinesis and
superpowers
exactly big thanks to Roy W national
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom and sasha
Rickman and I'm Robby Ferguson
[Music]
[Applause]
