hi guys welcome to the coffee break
gotta get my coffee how's everybody
doing
coffee for a coffee break are you
kidding I know right
what is this so Lewis sandwich break I'm
swiping look I'm doing a search here oh
I see so boo I see Peter I see Lance man
63 I had the because I'm remoted into
the computer there so the the window
that says joined by audio was covering
Ron completely everybody have a good
weekend yeah I did I
I completely veg there I did not even I
did not even think about work or any of
that I just I just bench watched a bunch
of YouTube everywhere for you
you mean to tell me you had an actual
weekend I did wonder if I did I did I
said I've had enough I'm just gonna go
I'm just going to go fantasize for a
while I was watching a youtube series of
a couple who have bought a boat and
they're literally sailing around around
the world right now well not now they're
isolated okay we're in
they're somewhere in Tonga you can't be
isolated the small sailing boat pretty
isolated to me yeah but you know they
have to stop to get water and
right daddy ports maybe that's true yeah
that's true yeah so but yeah that would
be the life but well it would be except
I couldn't stand it I don't think I
would I don't care but that would be
something I would I would be able to do
I think I would love it for about maybe
a month it would be a good holiday for
short but oh yeah
work the way that don't look at those
you know when you look at those videos
and all the work that they'd have to do
on the boat just to keep it running it's
crazy like find an island where you can
in the boat out out off the shore and
swim in and have a campfire oh yeah it
isn't a fishing it's like a I'm guessing
my image is frozen but I can still hear
you oh yeah yeah we can hear you yeah
your back oh okay
the they have a dinghy hanging off the
back of the boat and they just use it to
go in that's perfect a port and it's a
big old catamaran that's what they've
got it's a queen whole thing which is
good because it's very stable compared
to the monohulls yeah but it has been
took to I mean that's not that's not
chump change at all yeah but yeah and I
can't wait just to get up to the cottage
let alone doing that but just to be
secluded enough as far as how our
cottages do that even the difference
there is you've got somewhere solid on
the ground and I think that's the part
that bothers me I feel like I've got to
have something solid that I can say this
is mine this is my home base yeah I can
go I can go fly in the airplane or
playing a boat or whatever for for weeks
or months or whatever at some point I've
always got to come back I've got a call
something home that's young for me so do
they have a sailboat or Powerball
both it is a sailboat but they have a
they have an engine in each heart
so they can run one or both engines in
case the wind drops completely cool
money lots of money oh yeah it is not
cheap by any means it was something like
300 grand to buy that boat yeah so that
was us that was operating costs that was
that was u.s. dollars Robbie so that's
probably a million dollars Canadian
either why are we all laughing it's the
truth that's the price of enjoyed house
that's the price of a good house though
let alone one that is just on the water
oh yeah oh it's got to have nice
amenities one of the reasons I've bought
an early early model Cessna is because
they're a lot cheaper and they're a lot
simpler I don't know if I was on this
chat when I talked about that but yeah I
could have bought a brand new Cessna 172
if I'd wanted to pay literally half a
million dollars I'm sorry I have I I
have you know a problem with paying more
for my airplane than my house you just
need a cheap house in somewhere tropical
that makes it justifiable no no you can
fly too so do you get up in the air like
with with everything that's been going
on do you still get tired yeah cannot
because the plane just went in for its
annual inspection that has to happen
every year the annual expired in April
and I have to fly with an instructor to
get my BF re out of the way my biennial
flight review so you have to do that
every two years you have to go and get
yes Wow yep all right yep yep yep just
rods with an instructor they do an
interview on the ground for an hour or
so to make sure you still have a good
knowledge of the rules of the year that
sort of thing yeah problem is there are
no instructions flying because of the
turret right yeah there may be something
maybe some better still
I probably have to wear a bandits you
know be abandoned and see ya see if we
can do that but yeah currently I've got
to get the Aunt Bea the annual done on
the aircraft and then and then I could
to get my young and I could get my
slightly inferior fairy out of the way
yep
and once I've got the met on the way out
and get a v8 so there would be my plane
but yeah my plane was - my plan was to
do that months ago but of course with
the current situation instructors
weren't flying at all so yeah and in
hindsight like well part of you probably
feels like oh I wish I had that right
now because then you could be flying and
I'm just yet getting out right I think I
mean I was out at the airport yesterday
but I couldn't fly it was pretty die
yeah and I mean if anybody wanted to
risk getting in the airplane with me
that probably you know to be smart that
probably shouldn't do it so now is your
plane enough you've got enough room that
you could put someone in the back and I
got four seats yeah for say three plus
me so it's all it's a way you know it is
pretty sweet
it's a 172 yeah but not knots not big
enough that we could maintain six feet
of separation yeah one of them citation
chips or anything crazy like that
if you it'll be pretty blurry that's for
sure to do is all I would have to do is
crank up the engine the propeller would
generate enough wind because it's right
in front of the cockpit right it's right
in front of the Ray the pilot seat so
without that and by the way just so you
know so be if there's no windshield in
that airplane it's not staying up in the
air because that acts as a big old air
scoop and yeah generates so much drag
that the wings can't generate enough
lift to keep the thing up it's probably
a good safety feature that I can't fly
without the wing a seal
you could try you might get four yeah
the last time you just steer very clear
of seagulls yeah so the last thing you
want the bird strike that is the last
thing I know one person who who got a
bird strike in the air and the bird
visited him in the air in the cockpit
because it busted right through the
windshield arm and but he safely landed
he landed safely and luckily he does
like I do and you know we fly airport to
airport so there's always one ahead of
you and always one behind you whenever
you write whenever you do over there
they're watching for you to arrive so
how did they prevent bird strikes in a
biplane well the finally has a dinky
little only has a dinky little wrench
ooh yeah there's really not much not
much to worry about in a biplane you
just reach forward and probably a mask
over your room and if you don't have the
mask on then you're probably gonna get
some feathers in your mouth but oh well
you know just deal with that and you'd
be under 10,000 feet oh absolutely
oh yeah yeah yeah yeah I don't go above
if I don't go about 10,000 feet I beat
me it's nice up there but but it's so
it's it's yeah yeah you don't go but
10,000 feet not with you on oxygen
anyway so you don't have a pressurized
cabin oh no oh come on it's a one
chicken - no it reminds me of their
front singer over in our maiden he is a
captain in one of the big Jumbo's he
flies around there I think he he flies
for an Icelandic and this another video
that you saw saw a couple years ago
[Laughter]
each time they are playing they are
using you're not thinking of the actor
John Travolta right me he actually parks
somewhere I think it's in Florida
somewhere playing from singer is the
pilot and he was region TV and then he
he was asked whether flying that their
own plane surely they could fly our
commercial flights and then he the only
reason he he they are doing that is
because of one of them is afraid of
flying unless he is flying interesting
okay just a second PD you are over
driving that microphone so hard that
you're causing distortion just so you
know you're over driving that microphone
big time Peter the callsign that they
use on the organ mating flights is I
don't then six six six
they never OB it's not gonna be long
before you're up to Episode six
sixty-six of category five you're just
gonna skip that episode Oh what do we do
do we do we use the green screen and I
dress up as Lucifer himself actually
it's not
maintained and anymore but at one point
in time there was a flavor who was
called a satanic addition we should like
we should get like one of those chip
manufacturers on an interview for for
episode 6 I need install instructions at
the time it said that in order to
install this your first has have to
install the Christian edition first much
better much better drink is already Bo
do you go wings maybe a better movie it
does look a little better definitely
progress theater and and and it's nice
to see your face rather than like your
elbow yes that too they pay and now
gonna know their Joe ah see his camera
was set to 240p was just I thought it
was just an affront go solder or the
lens needed washing you could you could
see that kind of like pixelation though
like it was just not able to focus at
all sure trouble just one by the way I
mean it did you go go where a month you
are gonna be going away oh but it's
coming it's gonna take that long to get
here
okay yeah that's the thing about orders
right now you just never know when
they're gonna arrive or they are playing
it safe and I'm telling ya the next day
well I just ordered some parts for my
from my clothes washer it's 20-some
years old and it's finally having
problems with the agitator there are two
parts to the agitator the modern part is
what swishes the clothes around and the
top part is an organ it pushes the the
clothes down into the well that top part
has stopped working I could hear
I could hear stuff grinding in the
inside that part I thought okay
something something's not quite right
with that so one of the nice things
about Sears is that even though you guys
still have Sears well the ciaz website
is still active in there and the sea is
and the sears PartsDirect
website is still active and so you can
so you can still get I was just
literally thinking of Sears yesterday I
was like because they they went bankrupt
here in Canada so always like here - I
think so I don't know but you you still
have the parts list and the part numbers
and all oh okay okay manual this is one
of the reasons I like Sears because it's
great well you still got the part
numbers it's a user serviceable yeah yes
so I had a look and it looks like a
fairly easy really simple fix so I
ordered the patch that should be here
then right
yeah very nice most the things that you
bought can be if you open the back side
or power inside people's schematics yeah
yeah I just fixed by my Whirlpool dryer
it's about 20 years old as well and I
fixed it
I don't know five six times as well at
the thing guy
and probably the same with my Kenmore I
just it fix it over an hour mine - mine
- Kenmore as well the dryer seems the
things that seem to go in the dryer is a
heating element mostly and the sensor
I've replaced all those things yeah I've
never had a mechanical issue it's always
been because I got the computerized one
it's the sensor is like the key thing
that tells it how hot it is and so I've
replaced that twice and actually one
time mice got into the heating element
and they stashed they stashed no don't
worry they luckily they weren't there
while it was on but they stashed cat
food on the heating element so so then
that's in one point it just lit a small
fire in the heating element of course
the heating element just went pop though
no that's what I discovered some
needless to say we've got rid of the
mice and I've also taped up the back
with some with some duct tape the water
or the dryer dryer we've got three kids
at home so it's like even though I you
got it yeah
you're just like we're just doing
laundry all the time so I use the
laundromat yeah there you can just do
all of it in one load option as well
speaking of ordering I remember the very
first internet order I did it was in 98
or 99 and it was a submarine game that I
ordered but yeah you're the proposed you
are playing the Catholic and it's a kind
of a movie interactive movie where you
are making making decisions and I
remember ordering it two days later
someone and two weeks later the bill
came in the mail
oh wow I remember I was I still smile at
the game camera after three days and the
bill came of the future
Juuso was that one of those first right
yeah nowadays they don't do it that way
it was that one of those like where they
filmed it like a movie and it's like
choose your own it
yeah I had some of those that I'd play
and and I can't even remember what they
are now but if I ever saw them it would
be like incredibly nostalgic yeah and I
remember I had for a few years I had 688
hunter-killer you are playing and it you
could play on the Internet I remember I
joined there something called sea woof
virtual Navy now they have all kinds of
Armed Forces and you have to you have to
at least they they pick you about and
then you have to play against people and
you have to file a report after each
game after my second the game the other
of the final report it turned out he he
was and he was an actual u.s. submarine
captain who played that game in his
parrot and he was recruiting he find
that I almost got him it's funny that
would be like playing a flight simulator
and you know when you think I'd fly any
time you like it's not quite the same
thing but a friend of mine a friend of
mine I do that he is
train operator he is them pilot pilot
and his favorite gave this transported
one thing about one thing about that or
or a flight team is that you get to go
places that you couldn't that you could
not go in the airplane yeah it makes me
think vp9 there was when I was a I don't
know like a preteen a game came out that
was hack hacking oboe you the purpose
was that you were to hack into all these
mainframe systems and it was like this
terminal base thing and it looked really
hacker asking oh really yeah but you're
hacking into fake systems out of the
game so you just made me think of that
it just came back so let's have a quick
chat about rather than because I was I
prompted by our discussion on Saturday I
jumped onto my neck ear router to see
what exactly was available to me in
terms of locking stuff down and all that
and there's not much there Robbie
there's not much there this there's a
there's a few checkboxes you can click
but it's not real clear what the impact
of those checkboxes is so one of my
questions to you is given the router or
even the firmware to go on the router
for instance I could put dd-wrt or or as
you said one of the other you know yeah
firmware versions on the hardware itself
so the question I have is what about the
documentation that goes with it how how
good is that documentation that goes
with that firmware or even a whole rata
like we were talking about mikrotik last
week how good
the documentation to to show you and
this might be something you can bring up
in your in your series you know here's
what it can do but in order to figure
out what it can do you how do i how do I
relate this button click or this entry
in the rules with what what actually
happens I wonder if that's even one of
the differences maybe that's an answer
to your question what's the difference
is you've got a device like the net gear
whose firmware is meant to be you know
step one step two step three strip or
and then you're done like that you're in
there's your manual and it's not going
to ever deviate from that right where
something like an open source firmware
like dd-wrt or something like mikrotik I
think it's more like here's your getting
started guide but now you need to tap
into the community in order to go any
further because you're talking about
like really sophisticated setups and
it's gonna be the same at either dd-wrt
or which I'm very well doctors and it
requires that you do need some knowledge
of networking in order to be able to
effectively apply the rules yes and no
more because you can get into a forum
and say look I'm new here I'm new to
networking I need to be able to do this
what do you guys suggest and you'll
probably get some replies and and even
some links to to documentation that'll
help you get there
and so if you're gonna go it alone yes
you have to have pretty good knowledge
of networking okay but if you might use
a community yeah
maybe that's something to highlight in
you around yeah and your series when you
talk about it I think it's the court in
my experience the biggest challenge with
routers is that they use different
methodologies and different terminology
to do the same thing the different
router true it's true so we've got a
enterprise I think it's I think it's
Enterprise d-link router here Rock
Mountain B link router and we have one's
a backup failover but to set up like
forward
forwarding rule on that thing is a pain
in the neck okay on like a home let your
router or home d-link router it's a
piece of cake you just go and say which
dresser which host name and or and where
do you wanted to go and yeah but here
got a set up like all these steps of
different rules but I think that's
intentional I think that's like the neck
here the net gear is so simple but it's
also its binary mmm either this port
this port is either open or closed
yep it's a binary decision whereas your
router and my router these Enterprise
routers are so much more sophisticated
that it's not it's non binary it's yes
this port is open based upon this
criteria so these physics yeah it just
is so much more sophisticated as far as
the security goes but you're right it
[Music]
and those devices can be remotely
managed so he has management server
running on our server where he can he
can remotely configure their rules on
the device on his home on his parents
home and the home of his brother that
scares me even more because you know
being able to remotely manage a random
means that if somebody you Betty does a
really good job of in though bp9 like
you have to configure which is going to
remotely manage so you can you can't
just log on remotely you have to log on
to management server but you have to but
you're you're taking on it yeah you're
taking this access point and telling
this access point when you first
configure it I want you to be managed by
this server and you're taking the next
access point and saying I want you to be
managed by this server and this is my
server can be an internal server it
doesn't have to be able the internet but
brilliant if you've got like oh uh
because these are wireless devices right
so you can have it let's say you had 25
acres of land you could cover this with
ubiquity devices that have solar panels
and you've got Wi-Fi throughout the
whole place yeah exactly yeah and if one
goes down you can reroute that traffic
to another one that's very cool now you
say the management server you say the
management server can be in internal it
can be inside the network it does not
have to you don't have to rely on anyone
in the cloud to well because that's
that's my biggest concern I would not
your server it's you I would not want my
management server to be up in the
internet somewhere accessible it would
it would have to be internal some gear
that it can be a remotely managed the
management server need to be inside my
house yeah yeah yeah yeah guys I hate to
say it but my producer is telling me
it's time to go yeah the other voice is
telling me take it easy everybody have a
great
