covering the week's top tech stores it's
like Linux bias Apple has begun selling
the rack-mountable variant of its Mac
Pro desktop computer starting at just
6500 dollars the rack-mounted Mac Pro is
identical to the tower version in terms
of specifications and it comes in the
same hardware configurations as well it
has the same ports it's laid out the
same inside the case and it has the same
rear connections the differences from
the tower variant are entirely in the
case itself this variant of the Mac Pro
forgoes the wheels or stands of the
tower model in favor of stainless steel
rails that allow the device to be
mounted horizontally in server racks it
also has a removable lid instead of the
fully removable frame seen in the tower
additionally the handles are on the
front for easy removal from server racks
and some other elements like the power
button have been moved from the tower
top to the front rack this Mac Pro is
intended for inclusion in render farms
as a server and other commercial and
professional uses I could certainly see
in the render farm I mean I work in
video all the time so having something
that's able to do my rendering that's
that powerful but does it have to be a
Mac could it be ill the next machine
with blender running that would be sweet
let's go
[Music]
