here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
PayPal has dropped out of the Alliance
that is trying to launch Facebook's
digital currency Libre a man has been
able to move all four of his paralyzed
limbs with a mind-controlled exoskeleton
suit no we're not early today April
Fool's jokes of 2020 Microsoft is really
making a new mobile phone that has two
screens and runs Android and Canada's
busiest airport will soon be using
artificial intelligence power technology
to detect weapons these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories the slave Linux
bias
I'm Sasha Rickman and here are the top
stories were following this week PayPal
has dropped out of the Alliance that is
trying to launch Facebook's digital
currency Libre PayPal made the
announcement in a statement on Friday
but did not specify what had prompted
the decision Libra and its digital
wallet Calabro were revealed by Facebook
in June but the cryptocurrency has been
criticized by regulators and both France
and Germany have pledged to block it
from Europe PayPal said it remains
supportive of libras aspirations but had
chosen to focus on its own core
businesses the firm was one of the
original members of the Libra
Association a group of 28 companies and
nonprofits helping to develop Libra its
other members include payments company
Visa ride-hailing app uber and
humanitarian charity of Mercy Corps in
response to PayPal's withdrawal Libra
association said that it was aware that
attempts to reconfigure the financial
system would be hard quote commitment to
that mission is more important to us
than anything else it said in a
statement we're better off knowing about
this lack of commitment now end quote
at its unveiling this year Facebook said
that people would be able to make
payments with the currency via its own
apps as well as on messaging service
whatsapp partner firms would also be
able to accept Libra for transactions
Facebook said
would be independently managed and
backed by real assets and that paying
with it would be as easy as and as
texting the group of seven advanced
economies warned in July that it would
not let Libre proceed until all
regulatory concerns had been addressed
central bank chiefs including the us's
or the UK's Mark Carney have also voiced
skepticism and u.s. President Donald
Trump has tweeted that he's not a fan of
the currency the Liebherr association
will hold its first meeting of its
governing body the Libre Council on the
14th of October the group said in a
tweet that it planned to share updates
soon afterwards about quote 1,500
entities that have indicated
enthusiastic interest to participate end
quote
how interesting this is an interesting
story because I was just reading today
that some of the American politicians
are telling Visa if you stay involved
this is going to be highly scrutinized
do you want to continue and so it's
there's a lot of scrutiny over Lieber
and I mean I know I've said in in the
past like I think this is not a great
idea simply because of the issues
Facebook has had so you get them
attached to it and it's gonna
immediately open the door to privacy
concern except how is it gonna be used
and I know it's not just Facebook but
that I think that plays in as an
undercurrent of fear if it wasn't
Facebook involved would people be more
open to it and that's the big thing like
crypto currency backed by so many
companies in general I think is like
governments would be hesitant because
they they lose the control over their
own economy yeah and that means they
lose the control over fair trade and and
other you know it's like what what would
the government do if suddenly they lost
all control of the currency well yeah
for sure I mean if you figure you know
you've got trading on this the actual
stock market of currency and if suddenly
there's a run on
you know American currency say and
people like you know I want to invest in
Libra instead and nationalities are then
going with the cryptocurrency like the
US dollar crashes that impacts the the
the whole economy yeah so there's a
whole reason for wanting to keep things
from a monetary standpoint stable right
you know so I do I do get it I do get
the concern it's funny because I would I
would think personally because of
Facebook's issues I would have less
confidence but then knowing the visa is
partnered then that brings up right it's
like visa has this I have this comfort
in the security of visa so much branded
themselves well how about the interest
but what's interesting to me is that I
think that because it's Facebook and so
many people who aren't as well educated
in the privacy issues they probably are
excited about it because it's Facebook
right perhaps yes oh this is gonna be
integrated into whatsapp right so hey
that's a great feature right so there's
definitely that too I think it's just
the natural evolution of like this is a
technology than now exists now obviously
Libre doesn't I don't we don't yet know
like we understand the they're gonna be
using real commodities in order to
stabilize the the currency but how can a
cryptocurrency be stable that's like
that's what I'm waiting to find out
right and it is there gonna be no mining
of the currency like and if that's the
case huh like how do you you have to
acquire it by purchasing it just like
just like regular currency which is like
you're you're doing the exchange when I
when I have US dollars I've purchased US
dollars from here in Canada so we'll see
and and does PayPal bailing out does
that really represent any any impact on
Libra or is it just gonna carry on and
PayPal is just not going to be a part of
it because they're really kind of a
competing product and cryptocurrency
doesn't really fall into what they've
really established themselves as which
is a fiat based currency
basically like a digital bank and truly
like time will tell in five years PayPal
is either gonna be kicking themselves
for getting out or they're gonna be
high-fiving each other for getting out
we don't know right we shall see and
we'll be here to report on it well
unfortunately our teleprompter has
stopped working but luckily I have the
new stories loaded on my laptop so if
you'll excuse me I'll be looking down to
read the news a man has been able to
move all four of his paralyzed limbs
with a mind-controlled exoskeleton soon
tybalt who does not want his surname
revealed was an optician before he fell
15 meters in an incident at a nightclub
four years ago he says taking his first
steps in an experimental exoskeleton
suit felt like being the first man on
the moon
his movements particularly walking are
far from perfect and the Robo suit is
being used in only the lab but
researchers say the approach could one
day improve patient's quality of life
tybalt had surgery to place two implants
on the surface of the brain covering the
parts of the brain that control movement
64 electrodes on each of the implants
read the brain activity and beam the
instructions to a nearby computer
sophisticated computer software then
reads the brainwaves and turns them into
instructions for controlling the
exoskeleton the injury to his spinal
cord
left him paralyzed and he spent the next
two years in hospital but in 2017 he
took part in the exoskeleton trial with
the clinic with Clini Tech and the
University of Grenoble initially he
practiced using the brain implants to
control a virtual character or avatar in
a computer game and then he moved on to
walking in the suit after two years of
not walking he says he'd actually
forgotten how to walk and even lost the
perception that he was taller than a lot
of people in the room well he quickly
took to controlling the exoskeletons
ability to walk it took a lot longer to
learn how to control the arms he says
quote it was very difficult because it
is a combination of multiple muscles and
movements
this is the most impressive thing that I
do with the exoskeleton end quote
Tybalt does need to be attached to a
ceiling harness in order to minimize the
risk of him falling over in the expose
exoskeleton it means the device is not
yet ready to move outside the laboratory
there are also plans to develop finger
control to allow able to pick up and
move objects but the researchers have to
be careful how much data they transmit
from the brain to the computer they have
350 milliseconds to go from thought to
movement otherwise the sense system
becomes difficult to control there is
the future potential to read the brain
in a more in more detail using more
powerful computers and AI to interpret
the information from the brain and the
team responsible are keen to continue
developing the technology using the
sensors Tybalt has also used the implant
to control a wheelchair according to the
researchers their motivation is entirely
medical in providing mobility to
patients who otherwise would be unable
to move that is incredible like let's
get this straight he has like sensors in
his brain right on the surface of his
brain that are reading his thoughts to
control reg'ment right what incredible
what's impressive about that is the fact
that they've been able to do everything
but the fact that they've been able to
isolate the electrical impulses in the
brain that signify those specific
movements yeah like that in and of
itself is phenomenal
or is he training his brain to create
new one right maybe I love that they
have the avatar first for him to like
train on a no-confidence with because
imagine like controlling a machine with
my mind but having my body than at risk
right yes very cool situation it is
interesting though that it it can't be
done on board and then maybe it's just
the amount of computing power that's
required
cake bowl that into the suit well I'm
sure that can be done inevitably through
technologies like where technologies
that look at single board computers that
have like NP use on neural processing
units right that can process data at
teraflops and they fit like in your
pocket so it could be done is just maybe
they you know they got a start yeah you
got to when you're prototyping it's
always bigger and and and and certainly
the safety harness of being strapped to
the ceiling makes sense yes is like you
say you can't imagine what would happen
if like he made the wrong thought and it
collapsed on him or something it's
interesting though because I'm like very
safety minded in this thought and I
think it would be really good if they
implemented this for wheelchairs first
just like yeah before it works saves you
and that seems so much more simple than
this yeah right maybe wheelchairs and
maybe transfer devices drive cars now
what is cool about this though I mean
and you're talking about putting it may
be in wheelchairs but I'm thinking all
the people that have prosthetic limbs
you know to be able to take this
technology and go hey you know what
so you're missing a part of your arm and
a hand we now have a prosthetic limb
here's this little implant you can now
control that on the back you get in
there oh yeah but that excites because
you're gonna think of the the
limitations that some people have to
deal with it's like okay well I can't do
that this opens up a whole new world oh
yeah I love it like I am so excited
about this project and what it means for
giving life back to people who are
hampered in some way or another
mm-hmm it's it's great what this is a
total good news story and and it's not
just about that mobility but just
reading like you say the wheelchair is
not moving the body parts it's moving
like a motorized wheelchair so like the
communication can be with a device it
can be with controlling other devices
who knows what the who knows exactly
this is the world is your oyster when it
comes to thoughts ideas well I am
wondering from a security standpoint
mmm-hmm like I'm suddenly thinking
about the fact that it's transmitting to
a computer could this open up the door
to somebody hacking that so to speak in
taking control of the suit by setting
why are you hitting yourself in there
something like this it's not just about
the mobility and what they could do but
they're also building in some security
protocols yeah for that kind of stuff I
mean that wasn't covered in the story
but I hope that's the case for sure
because I mean why not being standalone
use it could have an impact mhm
we'll see what happens I've lost several
years with this technology with the with
the research that they're putting into
it as well now we've got to take a quick
break the crypto report and more of this
week's top tech stories are coming up
don't go anywhere
[Music]
in what serves to confirm we are
currently living in the end times
Microsoft has made new mobile phone that
has two screens and runs Android
it would appear microsoft itself is
learning that if at first you don't
succeed
there's always linux they've announced
the forthcoming android surface phone
duo at their annual hardware event among
other dual screen qualcomm and AMD
powered goodies there is a huge catch
you'll have to wait until christmas 2020
if you want one of your own
unlike the samsung galaxy fold
microsoft's attempt at a folding font
fondle slab pardon me is quite clearly
two screens with a chunky 360 degree
hinge in the middle allowing displays to
be positioned however you want as a
small tablet as a closed up device half
open as a book or a fully open as a
large flat tablet those touchscreens are
each 5.6 inch units making an eight
point three inch display when opened up
fully while the separate screens will be
scoffed at by owners of Samsung and
Huawei's forthcoming foldable devices
which use one large continuous bendable
display the surface monitors should at
least be more durable than the
disastrous first attempts by samsung
surface enthusiasts in chief a Panos
Panay says the company is quote
partnering with Google to bring the best
of Android end quote
this comes after Microsoft extracted
billions of dollars in patent royalty
payments out of Android makers until
recently and is about to finally bring
down the axon one of its family of
mobile Windows operating systems and
this is Android powered by Linux the
open source kernel that Redmond now
apparently loves after earlier declaring
it a cancer quite a turnaround Linux
kernel creator Linus Torvalds said back
in in 1998 quote if Microsoft ever does
applications for Linux it means I've won
well Linus you've won
that is awesome yak sighting I mean
we're well done Linna yeah yeah yeah
just a little bit yes for the win well
it starts to feel like okay they it was
always windows versus yeah and Linux was
made out to sound like Oh only hackers
use that yeah well and and Linux Android
is based on Linux so it's basically
powered by Linux a lot of devices are
that you don't even realize you're
routers and things like that your phone
your your tablets
they're all Linux based but Microsoft
wanted to have Windows based tablets now
to be doing Android is pretty cool I
like it yeah change it up Canada's
artificial intelligence powered
technology to detect weapons the
operators of Toronto's Pearson
International Airport says that it has
agreed to test the new system developed
at an Ivy League American University and
marketed by a BC company vancouver-based
Liberty defense Holdings Limited
says the technology known as hex wave
can detect both metallic and nonmetallic
weapons ranging from guns and knives to
explosives it operates by capturing
radar images and then using artificial
intelligence to analyze those images for
signs of a weapon concealed in bags or
under clothing Liberty says that the
technology is not able to recognize
facial features and is therefore and
therefore does not pose a privacy risk
opposition experts in the field view
with some skepticism the Greater Toronto
airports authority which operates
Pearson says that it will start
deploying the technology in the spring
of 2020 in a bid to boost security
Dwayne McIntosh director of corporate
safety and security for the authority
said quote they were trying something
that could give us a more definitive
look at weapons and plastic explosives
that may be coming into airports when I
saw this opportunity I felt that we had
to be part of it
end quote Macintosh said the exact plans
for the pilot project are still under
way but said hacks wave units will be
deployed just
Side Airport terminals in order to pick
up on potential threats before they get
inside one of the systems benefits he
said is that it can be integrated with
other airport security features and
trigger responses based on what it picks
up detection of certain weapons for
instance could automatically trigger
doors to lock or sound specific alarms
Pearson Airport is not the only location
the Metro Toronto Convention Center has
also signed as a test site see I like
that last point about locking down doors
yeah think about schools or something
like that like just the idea behind that
as frightening as that is and how we
don't want that to ever be the case it's
like to be able to lock down based on
n/a I would know that also has some
scary connotations but I I would say
like security movies like like human
based security is always going to be
necessary but also it's kind of easy to
pull the wool over somebody's eyes if
you know exactly how to socially
interact right so to have AI kind of as
a backup not as the only okay yeah maybe
that's it right that's good
right - so think of it that makes me
think okay so is so my immediate thought
was oh a I being able to lock down all
the doors maybe that's maybe that's
dangerous what if it was instead an
alerting system I this is hypothetical
but you think about the the security
guard or security person watching 300
monitors in the security room and what
if they don't catch what's happening on
this monitor because they're looking at
this monitor what if the AI could light
it up red and say we're aren't burnt
something's going on here and it could
be something really that's not that
doesn't even incite panic for people
like what if the the triggered response
is just something that comes across the
hall and says you know under
construction or you know what is it cool
about this is that you know for for us
here in Canada this is a local story for
us I mean yeah I'm in the Metro Toronto
Convention Center all the time I fly out
through Pearson often for work
and it's like this is kind of neat I'm
excited to actually see this put into
play and to see do I even notice it yeah
not that I'm gonna you know try to test
it but like to see like walk in and go
oh yeah okay there's that sensor oh
there's that like just to see if I can
pick up on it or does it just become
part of everyday life it's it's kind of
neat but what it's interesting about it
is that it's before you enter the
airport yes because I mean when you get
to those security checkpoints you go
through all the steps but this is kind
of like a pre-screening before you even
get in there to protect mmm everybody
who's checking in for their flights and
that's where the massive load of people
and it just flights in this this
particular scenario but oh yeah there's
kind of people that could be in the
lobbies all at once
I swear to you no you go ahead oh sorry
just don't let me lose my thought okay I
wanted to speak to the privacy side of
things where they said there's a little
skeptical about the fact that faces
aren't recognized or recognizable I'm
wondering what actually you would see on
a scan right right that for me it would
be well you're not seeing the AI is
interpreting data and saying okay this
person there's something so my thought
is could this also not only the positive
effect of knowing that hey that person
is carrying a weapon but could this also
help to prevent stereotyping and and
racial profiling and and falsely
accusing or falsely stopping somebody
right you know based on those kinds of
things you know what I bet it would also
help to it would diminish attempts with
people no way the technology is
integrated in it might take say somebody
was going to target an airport they're
not gonna target pierson because they
know that Pearson has this AI what from
a you know a local perspective on this
I'm also going but does this really need
to go into Pearson like is there more
going on than I realize
proactive right let's not wait until I
wonder like okay
so they're piloting this like is their
reason for and and and it just makes me
go
well they do a really good job if that's
the case because you never see anything
go down at Pearson at least the amount
of times that I've been there so to know
that this is just an added layer of
security that maybe is gonna be never
used would be great but if it is gonna
cut down on stuff I'm going wow that
well-done because I didn't know now it
was an issue yeah that's true
that's it's cool well Sasha can I jump
on to the cryptocurrency report just to
let our viewers know kind of where
things are standing as of October 9th
2019 this is what coin gecko tells us
Bitcoin Jeff is on the rise once again
we're up 300 25.91 cents us which brings
us to eight thousand five hundred and
eighty-seven dollars and forty-five
cents per coin cult Facebook libras
still not trained eight trading litecoin
is at 5908 gaining just a few bucks
etherium is doing pretty well as well at
191 dollars and 42 cents up from 177
last week Manero is holding steady at 55
82 and Scalla one of the small little
micro coins is losing a game just a
little bit at 0.3 to ten thousandth of a
cent
turtle coin on the other hand is gaining
the same amount almost at 0.26
ten thousands of a cent as skele the one
that kept changing it's Dave yeah it was
stellite and then it was torque and
right became Scalla so it's still on the
downward yeah like yeah wonder if this
is really as a result of switching those
names so I'm sure like if people if lots
will stop trading in it
that's proud of the problem probably you
lose confidence in a coin that doesn't
have stability one of the things looking
at micro coins turtle coin has been
consistent yes and it's been stable and
because of that it's Owen and their logo
is a turtle shell which is pretty cool
yeah teenies moon into turtles for the
win but but really I mean that gives you
confidence in the micro coin and being a
micro coin there's no there's no risk
basically it's
like you're gonna buy 10 billion of them
but you can mine them because they're so
plentiful and you can get it on consumer
hardware still and that's still a
possibility but the thing to remember
about cryptocurrency is that the market
is always open and it's always changing
it's very volatile and I mean like from
right now at this very moment to 10
minutes from now and even overnight it's
going to change completely and flip on
its head so you really have to make sure
that you're only investing and spending
what you can afford to lose because you
quite frankly are very possibly going to
lose it it's up and down all the time
but hey if you get gains then that's
that's a powerful thing but also there's
flooding or holding and and investing in
the future and holding that and trusting
that hey bitcoins gonna be worth more
one day and I think that's what we're
gonna see as soon as Libra starts
trading as well
they're no big investments coming into
Libra which is gonna then very quickly
boost the the Libra economy and cause it
to go up in value as well so we'll see
what happens gonna be incredible I'll
just keep that in mind big thanks to Roy
W Nash in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha Rickman I'm Robbie Ferguson
I'm in charge of all of the tech around
here sorry about that teleprompter you
did all right so yeah and I'm Jeff
Weston and I just stand here he's here
for the comic effect
I've romanians not read the instructions
