welcome to category five technology TV
I'm living out of boxes folks and
tripping over stuff because we can't
unpack we moved in the midst of
everything that's been going on in our
world and I because of everything that's
been going on I can't have our
contractor come in to do any of the
construction work because of that I
can't unpack or at least I feel like I
can't unpack because if I did I'd have
to put everything back in boxes again so
that it doesn't get covered in sawdust
when he's finally able to come but now
I'm in a situation where finally I have
some cables that have come in from
online orders that have taken weeks and
weeks to get here and finally I'm ready
to run some cables from one room to the
next through a makeshift conduit that I
created using some PVC pipe that we had
at the old studio not perfect but it
would work but I can't find the
components that I need in order to be
able to broadcast from within the studio
I'm looking everywhere on digging
through boxes I'm just not finding my
stream deck which would allow me to do
camera switching from within the main
studio so it's all very makeshift like
so many other companies and broadcasters
we're just doing the best that we can
this has been a very very challenging
time for all of us we moved in the midst
of this all these boxes are from our
move the studio isn't set up I can't get
every
but we'll do our best and so I'm glad to
have you here thank you so much for
joining me I'm gonna make it the best
show that I possibly can within the
situation we're gonna get better and
better as we go and things are gonna get
better and better as we figure out the
new normal and as we finally are able to
get things set up and unpacked in the
meantime thanks for being here for the
ride our live recordings are trusted
only to solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 TV well
folks welcome to the show its category 5
technology TV episode number 651 and
technically this is the first live
broadcast from studio e there may be a
little bit of echo coming off of my
microphone and things like that because
we don't have the drapes up and all the
sound absorption on the walls and
everything else just like I was talking
about there but we're getting there and
lo and behold just shortly after I
produced that quick video intro I found
the stream deck so here we are we're
able to do a show I messaged my wife on
discord and I said I I can't find it I
don't think I can go live like I want to
go live but all of these things are
falling into place and I don't have
everything that I need in order to be
able to push go it's a lot of stuff for
one guy to
everything up and it's like moving like
approaching Showtime every single week
since I've been here in studio II has
been like this enormous amount of work
to be ready for the show and and so when
I say this is our first technical live
broadcast
well previous broadcasts have come out
of this studio but I've had to
pre-record bits or I've had to record it
because I couldn't go live from this
room so I had to record it and then
broadcast it from the other room so I
was still here but it wasn't technically
live well I am actually here physically
in the flesh right now joining our
discord server through my phone so I
want to say hi to Rana Kat and marsh man
GF bp9 here with us yay stream decade
absolutely this stream deck is a thing
of beauty and some people have said to
me well what the heck is a stream deck
and I haven't reprogrammed this for the
new space so it still has some of our
old shots but I actually want to show
you this it has little tiny itty bitty
screens on it and I can I can set each
thing so everything that I push is a
trigger so when I push news it actually
takes me to the news shots and I can
actually set up new shots and there's
basically an unlimited number of shots
that I can configure in here so right
now I'm on the wide shot I can click on
Robby which i think is a closer shot and
I've got these all connected to tell a
stream Wirecast so but I'm not sure
which one's quite work yet
I've only set up a couple for today for
example I've got my laptop shot so if I
push that it actually switches over to
my laptop and that is such an important
tool for studio EB cuz our production
studio is in another space so we're not
actually physically in the proximity of
our servers and the broadcast equipment
itself I'm physically in on two rooms
separate from that so this is now
connected through a USB extender and
that USB extender is a powered extender
and it's now running through a conduit
pipe that I've put in
because I can't have the contractor come
and do it properly so I actually drilled
a two inch hole with a hole saw and and
on the other side as it was coming out
it like broke the drywall so now I'm
like hmm yeah I can't even get that
right this is why we hire contractors
those of us who are not contractors
happy so I can't wait for for the
ability to have him come in here and his
team come in here to be able to set
things up so what are we gonna do well
we've got this beautiful blue wall I'm
so thankful that just before everything
dropped just before our government here
in Canada shut everything down and I
mean just like two days before this got
painted our whole studio space got
painted by the painting company that
that was hired by the new landlord
so because of that we can come in here
and it looks great I mean I can make
shift this I can work with this it's
just getting all the wiring done and
getting everything up and running and
working so I started saying hi to those
of you in the in the discord Albuquerque
turkey is here with us as well mo
maravilla it's so great to see you mo
actually joined us for a coffee break
recently as well of course a lot of
these folks have joined us for coffee
breaks bp9 has been there almost without
fail marsh man has been there many many
times and and so that is something that
I've been doing that the community has
been doing when I say coffee break well
what is coffee break Robbie I think I
should just quickly mention that it's
something that through everything that
Canada that the world has been going
through in this past little while I
I felt it important that we all realize
that we're in this together that we're a
community that we're a family and that
we're here for one another and so coffee
break was established as a daily show
and we've done 59 days
of coffee break so every day at noon
we've been meeting on zoom' just for a
small get-together of our viewers to be
able to hang out and be able to chat and
you know say what's going on in our
worlds that doesn't have to do with
everything that's in the news it's a bit
of a sabbatical a bit of a break from
the everyday right now so now that
things are starting to get a little bit
brighter
I mean I'm hopeful that the government
is gonna well I shouldn't say that I'm
hopeful that it's going to be safe so
that our governments can say it's now
safe to have Jeff come in here and have
Henry come in here to the studio I'm
hoping that we get to that point sooner
than later because like you I'm tired of
it it's been it's been burnout situation
altogether and and doing everything here
by myself has been really tough because
it's lonely I want to be here with my
team I want to have I want to have Jeff
standing next to me and Henry on the
other side and Sasha remoted in and and
everything else but you know we're all
working with with what we're given right
now so coffee break is now at the point
where I think it's gonna be a weekly
thing it's definitely something that
it's established itself as something
that I want to continue here at
category-five technology TV so it's
unrelated to the show but it is the same
community so so that's something that is
going to be happening this Monday May
25th if you'd care to join us go on to
our website category five dot TV on the
day of about a half hour before noon
Eastern Time and by doing that you'll
see if you scroll down on the home page
you'll see the the current link for the
zoom meeting and then you'll be able to
join that community discussion and then
it's literally just a time to hang out
and get together and have a coffee break
and have a break from everything that
that the world is having to deal with
right now but at the same time we're
able to support one another
let each other know that we're there for
each other so that's our coffee break
and you'll find that a category-5 dot TV
mini Marsh is joining us stormy night
3000 great to see you again no man five
is also here who else have we got hey
send me a wave in discord big kitty I
see you there
nice to see you say hello and I will do
my best to catch you
we saw Peter in there as well I want to
say hi to Peter who is a frequenter on
on our coffee break as well and we've
been having a lot of fun with you my
dude and yeah it's great to see
everybody so just saying hi so it's been
a really tough time I'll be honest it
and I think that you know and I think
that you understand that and I want to
be straight up honest with you because
category-five is not where I want it to
be at studio II like the dream was like
hey we accomplished this on our
Kickstarter campaign and and so we can
move in and we can hire the people to
come in and do everything and then
pandemic dropped and everything changed
so it's not that anything is not
happening it's just that it's not
happening yet so you know I'm here doing
my best to keep the show kind of on
track as far as that goes and and I
appreciate you being here with me but I
received a message on YouTube today that
really encourages me and I want to say
thanks to David who says you guys are
the best resource for learning Linux
hands-down thank you for your
contributions to the community and David
I just want to say thank you so much for
that word of encouragement because right
now I mean even me on this side of the
camera I need those words of
encouragement and I know that you need
those words of encouragement we all do
but it's been a tough time for our
entire world for everybody that is going
through this and I'm going through this
in a different way altogether I'm
building a studio in the midst of this
without the ability to have helpers
coming in and helping me I'm dealing
with us a room full of stocked boxes
that I
unpack because I can't have the
contractor come in these are the things
that I'm dealing with I'm dealing with
running cables and trying to be up and
running in time for a Wednesday live
broadcast and I pulled it off this week
and I'm so thankful and that is largely
thanks to those of you who have decided
to support this show whether it be
through patreon or through our
Kickstarter campaign with the ability
for me to be able to get on to Amazon
get on to B&amp;H photo video and order the
things that I need in order to get up
and running even in a makeshift way at
the moment has been such a blessing and
it's been what is motivating me and
being able to keep me going and and and
it's what has made us able to be able to
broadcast tonight so I do want to say
thank you to those of you who have
supported us and and I'm not I'm not
gonna name everybody but some folks have
opted to be named so I I do want to say
thank you to Scott Barclay and Ron
Morris at Jerry Kowalski Jonathan Garvey
Jen's Nissen Bullock now ski bill
Marshall and everybody every single one
of you who has supported category 5 TV
if you've supported us and I'm not
naming you on that list it's just
because you didn't check the box for
that particular thing and I want to
acknowledge your contribution but I also
respect your rights to privacy so please
send me an email and I'll be very glad
to add you to that list with my utmost
thanks for your support of category 5
technology TV you can support us at
patreon.com slash category 5 even still
now our Kickstarter campaign has ended
and we're safe but it does take still I
mean I'm I'm flabbergasted that I just
paid the rent yesterday not literally
but it seems like May 1st was yesterday
doesn't it and here we are it's like
half way a little more than halfway
through the month of May
and I'm gonna have to pay rent again I'm
gonna have to pay my internet bill again
I'm gonna have to pay my insurance bill
again it's astonishing how quickly time
flies even though we're just in this
weird transitional phase right now so
that's where patronage really helps this
the show out because we do have those
monthly expenses in order to keep the
lights on in order to keep us here at
Studio E so thank you everyone for your
support I do have to take a really quick
break and when we come back I'm going to
be getting into the mikrotik we're doing
a series right now with micro tech
routers and this week we're gonna be
looking at how to configure port
forwarding it's a little more
sophisticated with a micro tech as you
can imagine then with your typical
consumer router so stick around I'll
show you how to do it right after this
[Music]
all right we've been looking at the
micro tech routers advanced routing with
these devices I mean they fall into this
interesting category all of their own in
a way because they're priced like a
consumer router but they have the
feature set of an enterprise router so
suddenly you're able to do so much more
you're able to protect your network way
better than you could with a consumer
router and you're you're able to do that
for about the same price or maybe a
little bit more but about the a tenth of
the price of an equivalent enterprise
level router
so all that said they're extremely cheap
for what you get and when you've used a
mikrotik router for a little while you
start to realize wow there's there's
like no limits to this it's like you can
just you can code stuff into it in their
router OS software and and you can
manage all kinds of stuff and all of a
sudden you start playing with caps man
and your mind is blown because you can
do things with a micro tech router for
30 40 50 a hundred and fifty dollars
that you would be doing with a router of
equivalent specs
that is seven eight hundred dollars
fifteen hundred dollars ten thousand
dollars and you're doing it on these
consumer priced devices from micro tech
so the device that I'm looking at here
at the studio is the router board RB
nine six to UI GS and that model is what
I've selected for us here at the studio
but it might not be exactly what you
want for your house or your home network
or your business network however that's
what's really cool about micro tech I
mean one of the things is that you just
pick the hardware that works for you and
the software is going to be the same
from device to device to device whether
you buy the thirty dollar unit or the
50 dollar unit or the 600 dollar unit it
doesn't matter as far as the software
goes your only limitation is in the
hardware so where my device has both 2.4
and 5 gigahertz Wi-Fi antennas and and
and transmitters you may buy a cheaper
device that only has 2.4 or only has 5
so those features will be limited only
by the hardware but the software itself
is the same so I I always start by
saying that because I want you to
understand you don't have to buy the
same one I bought you find the one that
works for you and then you can follow
along with the series and amazingly even
if you have a different model altogether
you're gonna be able to follow the
screen you're gonna be able to follow
the steps and it's going to be exactly
the same that is amazing so this week
I'm going to be looking at how to set up
port forwarding we're gonna call it now
mikrotik is going to call it NAT
firewall rules I'm gonna talk a little
bit about that in a moment but we know
it as port forwarding or redirecting and
that is that when someone hits our
public IP address at a certain port if
it's a port that I have allowed and that
I recognize I want it to reroute to the
appropriate server so in my case I have
a server at 10.0.0.0
it's my own personal kind of alternative
to Google cloud services and drive and
onedrive and all those kinds of services
I'm able to put them on my own server
and it's mine it's my own hosted system
at 10.0.0.0 open ports 80 and port 443
so if someone hits my IP or I actually
have a DNS record because we have
category 5 TV of course so I have Studio
dot category 5 dot TV is going to route
them to here and that's going to then
hit the micro tech and the micro tech is
going to say ok what do I do with this
traffic
what am I gonna do so I have to tell my
mikrotik hey that's port 443 I want to
route that to 10.0.0.0 because that is
presumably what this person is trying to
access so let's jump right into it I'm
gonna hop over to our mikrotik and
things are so sophisticated over here so
just follow along and you're gonna start
to pick up on how things work I've
clicked on IP last week we came here
because we started looking at the DHCP
server and static rules and things like
that which will expand upon in time I'm
gonna hit firewall these are the default
settings for my mikrotik firewall and I
want to add some rules that are going to
reroute traffic within my network now
we're a typical consumer firewall router
is going to say hey I'll take port 80
and I'll reroute it remember the
mikrotik allows me to have much more
control over that so I'm going to be
setting up NAT rules first that is
network address translation so those
rules are going to decide ok if someone
hits this port where do I want to send
it within the land ok where am I going
to allow them to access but then it's
still not going to work unlike a
consumer router that is just going to
say okay I'm just gonna basically D DMZ
that server and allow anyone to get
through and allow them to hack in and
whatever they want to do as soon as you
say go the the mikrotik is going to say
okay no I'll allow traffic through
however they are subject to some rules
you may have some other rules that
you've added to your mikrotik device
that say I'm only going to allow a
particular IP address to access this so
that might be my home IP address or my
office it may be that I've set up a rule
that says I never travel I'm always in
Canada I'm always in fact in Ontario so
if anyone ever tries to access my
servers from outside of Ontario block
them but open it for me
if
I'm in Ontario so like there's all kinds
of like it's a hierarchal kind of way of
looking at those router router rules to
redirect traffic to certain servers
within your network you can imagine
that's helpful for home because it's
giving you more security but it's also
exceptional for business it whether you
own or run an IT department at a small
medium-sized business or even a large
business micro tech is going to give you
so much more control over those kinds of
rules so let's start with our nat rule
and again nat is a short form term that
we use a stands for network address
translation and it basically tells our
network traffic where to flow based on
the rules that i've set up but they're
still not going to be allowed i'm going
to show you that in just a couple of
moments time so I know that I'm gonna
need port 80 and port 443 to route my
traffic for next cloud and I should
start by showing you that hey if I
actually go to studio dot category five
dot TV it's just gonna hang it's gonna
timeout it's not gonna go anywhere
because I haven't set up those rules yet
so that spin spin spin spin spin but
I'll leave that open
so my nat rule first of all i've created
a new nat rule so IP firewall nat new
rule and now I'm gonna change the chain
here I want to say it say that this is
the destination map because I'm setting
the destination within my internal
network I need to also set the protocol
because I want to specify that this is
actually TCP and you can see that there
are tons of protocols that you can
choose from I'm just setting up TCP on
port 80 and then port 443 to get us
started notice too that I am using web
fig in my web browser
I have not set up or and I'm also not
using a wind box and that's partly
because I want to show you this through
the browser so that you can see that you
don't need to have a tool installed to
be able to admin
you're mikrotik router I think there's a
misconception as soon as I say install
wind box and use that to connect to your
router it creates a misconception that
makes you feel like oh this it has to be
managed from a tool no but that's a
helpful tool to be able to give you
access to your router and it does
provide some exceptional additional
services like my multitasking so give it
a try but I'm gonna do most of this
through the browser because I think that
that's a better way to show you as
you're just learning your Microtech so
I've set it to destination that I've set
it to TCP as the protocol which is
number six and I need to set my
destination port and this destination
port is the port on the external network
so don't get confused with that which I
tend to sometimes do because sometimes
you may have a situation where your
public port is different than the
private port in this case as we're
setting up our NAT rule we are setting
the external port here so in in my case
it's going to match the internal port
but just keep that in mind that this
let's say your we want it to answer on
port 8080 you could add that there even
though the server in house is responding
on port 80 so just keep in mind that
might be different but in my case it's
in fact not different alright I need to
look at my interface so there's the in
interface I need to say this is going to
be Ethernet one in my case it may be a
little bit different for you just keep
in mind that what I am actually doing
there as I am selecting my internet
interface remember when I first set up
this router on our first episode of this
series I demonstrated that I was
plugging my internet modem into Ethernet
one port one and so that's what I'm
specifying here I want this to respond
on my internet interface and as you can
imagine you can dig deep and you can set
this up on you know you could be doing
things very sophisticated by specifying
different ports setting up VLANs all
that kind of stuff we're keeping things
simple and just going about it that way
all right I'm gonna scroll way down here
to action and just make sure that this
is set to DN DST net destination net so
that is going to route this traffic to
our server so now scroll down a little
ways here and you're gonna find two
ports there it is my two port is
actually going to be the same notice
that's giving me a range I'm just going
to specify port 80 and at the very very
bottom here there's an opportunity for
you to create a comment I'm going to do
that I'm gonna say next cloud 80 finally
the one last thing that I need to add
here is the destination IP address
internally on my network this is the
server as I mentioned 1000 a that this
NAT rule is going to respond on port 80
and redirect to 10.0.0.0 so now I'm
going to scroll all the way up and hit
OK and now we'll see that we have a new
rule called next cloud 80 and it's
responding DST net and it's pointing TCP
on port 80 through Ethernet one two as
we know from setting it up 10.0.0.0
secure port as well follow those same
steps I'm going to change the chain to
destination that I'm gonna change my
protocol to TCP and then I'm going to
change my external my in interface to
Ethernet one destination port I know I'm
a little bit out of order that's okay
you know what I'm doing destination port
is 4 4 3 let's scroll way down here and
change our action to DST NAT and our two
address
same server just different port and then
to port 443 and give it a comment here
next cloud 443 all right I think I've
got everything there looks good
let's hit okay so now I've got port 80
and port 443 nat rules going to ten dot
0 dot 0 dot
from the Ethernet one port over TCP it's
still not going to work so if I jump
over here I'm gonna hit f5 to refresh oh
and it is working look at that because
I'm internal on the internal land so I'm
not actually on the Ethernet one it's
not going to work from the outside world
yet because the outside world is is
coming in through Ethernet one
I'm obviously internal I'm on port two
as you'll remember from last week so in
order to give access to the outside
world now I need to go over to the
firewall rules tab here and click on add
new so this is where I'm actually saying
ok if the firewall gets hit I need to
trigger that nat rule so let's do that
so we've added a new firewall rule and
I'm gonna change the chain let's see no
it's already defaulting to forward so
that's fine
source IP address this is kind of cool
I'm not going to set this but I just
want to I want you to see this this can
be the IP address that you want to allow
remember I mentioned you could set it so
that only your home network is allowed
to do this you could do that add your
home IP address you can even create IP
groups that would that would be set up
here that's down here source address
list see that so these are things that
we're gonna be learning in time right
now I'm not going to do that I'm not
gonna set a source address I'm going to
open this up to the world but I want you
to know that that is available to you so
moving along destination I address is in
fact the internal server so that's
10.0.0.0 that is TCP so click that and
it TCP is in fact the default so that
just kind of saves us a quick time but
you can see all the protocols that are
available to us next step is we need to
set the service port so destination port
is going to be port 80 we're going to
start with we need to do both but I need
to set up each rule separately so there
we go in interface is going to be my
Ethernet one port as we already
established and so what I'm doing here
is I'm actually telling the firewall
that I'm going to allow this traffic
from the the first Ethernet port which
is my internet connection and this is
the one where action needs to be set to
accept so this is where I'm saying yeah
you know what I'm going to allow this
you could also set this to reject in
certain cases or you know various
different settings but we're gonna say
accept we're gonna allow this and then
create a comment just like we did before
I'm gonna call this firewall rule
comment next cloud 80 scroll way up and
notice that if you leave off the NAT
rule or you leave off the firewall rule
well you're missing some of the chains
so it's not going to actually respond
outside of your network so you need to
make sure that this is done next step is
I'm going to add 443 in the firewall
rules so forward is already selected
source address we're not going to do
this time around destination address
we're going to set to 10.0.0.0 Tikal is
going to be TCP in interface is going to
be ether one
and what else in my destination port I
need that there as well bah bah that is
going to be 4 4 3 scroll down make sure
it's set to accept and then set our
comment is going to be next cloud 4 4 3
there we go everything looks like I've
got everything in there I miss anything
folks you tell me I'm gonna hit ok so
now here's the final step you notice
that these two items here are drop
forward rules in the firewall now it's
important to note that mikrotik works in
it basically in order so from top to
bottom so when you're looking at your
firewall rules if you're wondering why
are these still not working well it's
because before my rules that I just
configured there's already a rule that
says drop everything so basically this
is saying hey if you've passed all this
past all this past all this now drop the
connection right because these that's a
pretty solid firewall well then it never
gets here so I actually need to reorder
these and the way I'm going to do that
is I want these to happen or I want my
custom forwarding rules to happen right
after the final input rule so I should
be able to simply drag that up to here
there we go and grab the last one my
next cloud 4 for 3 rule drag that up in
there we go
and now we're in so now I don't have to
restart the router I don't have to do
anything this is I'm able to see it but
our discord server you can confirm for
me head on over to studio category 5 TV
and without having to reboot my router
without having to restart anything you
should now be seeing that same login
prompt as well so head on over to studio
category 5 dot TV I'm sorry and and bp9
is just
or pardon me no man five you're just
commenting that when I add the comments
you're not actually seeing them on the
screen and that's because category 5 is
18 / 9 and my computer screen is 16 / 9
so that's a that's something that I'll
have to figure out how to fix in the
future that's my mistake but you can see
those comments have been entered it's a
comment field it's just a text field at
the bottom of your of your window while
you're adding it and there's that's what
I entered next cloud 18 X Cloud 4 4 3 I
apologize that I didn't catch that but I
appreciate you noting it so Moe
maravilla says yep I see the login a bp9
also says yeah works for me as well
so without those rules they would not it
would not respond whatsoever but now
that I've added those rules now y'all
are able to connect so the next thing
that I could do if I wanted to is I
could set up those source address lists
and those lists can contain IP addresses
of my home network of my work network of
my friends networks of my staff's
networks and allow them to follow
through those rules but drop everyone
else so that those hackers that are on
my discord server can't get into my next
cloud server and so on and so forth so
that's essentially you know those are
your steps so looking let's backtrack a
little bit and understand that ok I set
up two ports today port 80 and port 443
those are port 80 is an insecure HTTP
port and port 443 is a secure SSL
encrypted HTTP port I want both of those
so that if someone doesn't actually
physically type in HTTP colon slash
slash studio dot category-five TV it
will instead hit the port 80 and
redirect automatically to 443 if I
didn't have port 80 open they would
never get that redirect they would just
get a server not found error so backing
up we need to go into our mikrotik
configuration i'm using web fig
and click on IP click on firewall click
on NAT tab at the top and create a new
NAT rule that NAT rule is going to tell
it where do you want to go with this
with this port what do you want to do
with it
but it's not actually going to open up
open it up to the public that's where
the firewall rule comes in now so click
on firewall rules on that same IP
firewall and we need to create a new
firewall rule that's going to accept
that connection and allow those
connections through and you can further
hone in on IP addresses or IP source
groups and things like that there are so
many different options that we're not
able to cover today but you can get the
idea that this is going to give us a lot
of configurability and a lot of control
over not only how traffic is routed
through our networks but who and and
what IP addresses and what networks are
able to connect through our network and
how that's going to be routed once it
hits our Microtech we have to take a
quick break
sticker
welcome back this is category five
technology TV the chat is going wild and
people laughing mo maravilla says all
right it's time for the denial of
service thank you so very much to my
community for putting that thought in
the minds of those who we just allowed
access to my network ah that's one of
the nice things about the mikrotik is
that it is built to reject bad traffic
so by default if someone were to whack
away please don't okay because what we
do what we do and we do this out of love
for the community don't torture us but a
mikrotik router is built in such a way
that it's meant to drop those packets as
they come in it should handle things a
lot better than just a consumer router
or a typical router situation where
we're always getting whacked away out
you're always as soon as you connect a
computer and modem to the network to the
internet you're gonna get whacked away
out and maybe you don't realize that but
as soon as you set something up like see
SFO lft you're gonna see in the locks
that oh my goodness immediately I mean
I've assigned servers to a public IP and
immediately port scans are happening
from overseas and things are getting
whacked away at an SMTP authentication
czar being attempted and it's just wild
how quickly script bots and kitties are
going at our servers so it's important
to have something in place such as a
micro tech router
all right it's time to head over to the
newsroom folks Becca's here with me I'm
gonna throw it over to you here's what's
coming up in the category five TV
newsroom Equifax has finally settled
following their massive data breach but
as it turns out none of the money will
be going to you or me as previously
promised Facebook is bought jiffy
this real-life Microsoft is now the
biggest single contributor to
open-source can a computer write a hit
song
we'll find out and oneplus is
apologizing for an apparent accidental
x-ray camera feature that lets users of
its new phone see through clothing stick
around the full details are coming up
this is the category 5 dot TV newsroom
covering the week stop texting with a
slight linux bias
I'm Becca Ferguson Equifax has finally
agreed to pay compensation for the
massive security breach at suffered in
2017 that led to the theft of at least
146 million people's personal info but
before you get excited the money won't
be going to you but rather to your bank
which will be paid for the hassle of
having to cancel your payment cards
that's right the credit agency has
agreed to pay 5.5 million to thousands
of banks and credit unions who said they
were injured by their customers details
being siphoned off by hackers and a
further 25 million to beef up data
security
Equifax will also cover the bank's
administrative costs attorney fees and
relevant expenses which raises the
question what happened to the 125 that
America's consumer watchdog the FTC
proudly announced that we would get
thanks to its record-breaking 700
million dollar settlement with Equifax
it's been more than two and a half years
since they were hacked and just under a
year since the 700 million settlement
was met so it's perhaps surprising that
not a cent appears to be for the people
directly impacted by the cyber break-in
the 125 dollar headline fig figure it
turns out was made with the assumption
that only a very small percentage of
those eligible would actually apply but
thanks to the sheer size of the leak the
issue was extensively covered in the
press and that massively increased the
number of people who applied for
compensation this forced the FTC to
admit that it hadn't agreed to a
per-person fine but rather a lump sum
that would be split equally between
applicants not only that but behind the
700 million headline figure was a
different reality the FTC had agreed to
just 31 million for the pot that was to
be split equally among individual
applicants the rest was earmarked for
those who demonstrated they were left
out of pocket by the hack mitigations
money for states and so on
so while Equifax settles with states and
banks and hopefully those consumers who
rejected the FTC's terrible deal it
seems that no money will be forthcoming
for those who have gone to the trouble
of trying to get the 125 they
promised seven years ago Facebook
claimed not to support the 21st
century's new favorite communication
tool the animated jiff
oh how times have changed now Facebook's
newest acquisition is one of the
Internet's most popular jiff hosting
sites Facebook is making Jiffy part of
the Instagram team the deal is
reportedly valued at about 400 million
according to Facebook about half of
jiffy's current traffic already comes
from Facebook products especially
Instagram that's perhaps unsurprising
given that Facebook's big three apps
whatsapp Instagram and Facebook itself
have billions of daily users among them
Gylfie was in fact the first service to
make animated images work on Facebook
it created a workaround back in 2013
when Facebook's now laughable official
stance was Facebook does not support
animated gifs
although animated reaction images may
seem and kind of are inconsequential in
the grand scheme of things the deal is
likely to attract a significant amount
of scrutiny from federal regulators the
Justice Department Congress and the
Federal Trade Commission are already all
delving into even the smallest lowest
value opposition's that big tech firms
such as Facebook have made in the last
decade scouring them for patterns of
anti-competitive behavior Gylfie is by
no means the only just search and
hosting platform on the Internet but it
is one of the largest several other
platforms including Twitter use its API
for gifs support both Facebook and
Gylfie promised access will continue in
its announcement Gylfie specifically
said for our API SDK partners and
developers jiffy's gifs stickers emojis
etc aren't going anywhere
we will continue to make Gylfie openly
available to the wider ecosystem with
the announcements fail what the
announcements failed to mention however
is the fact that Facebook can now have
access to all the data generated by
those searches and API calls from other
platforms and using acquisitions to
gather data on competitors is exactly
the sort of behavior Facebook is under
investigation for right now
back in 2002 thousand won Microsoft CEO
at the time Steve Ballmer famously
branded Linux a cancer that attaches
itself in an intellectual property sense
to everything it touches but Microsoft
has admitted it was wrong about open
source after the company battled it and
Linux for years at the height of its
desktop domination now the pigs are
flying because Microsoft's current
president Brad Smith believes the
company was wrong about open source
he says Microsoft was on the wrong side
of history when opus open source
exploded at the beginning of the century
and I can say that about me personally
Smith has been at Microsoft for more
than 25 years and was one of the
company's senior lawyers during his
battles with open source software he
adds the good news is that if life is
long enough you can learn that you need
to change
Microsoft has certainly changed since
the days of branding Linux of cancer the
software giant is now the single largest
contributor to open source projects in
the world beating Facebook docker Google
Apache and many others others Microsoft
has gradually been adopting open source
in recent years including open sourcing
PowerShell Visual Studio code and even
Microsoft edgers original JavaScript
engine Microsoft has also partnered with
canonical to bring Ubuntu to Windows 10
and it acquired xamarin to aid mobile
app development and github to maintain
the popular code repository for
developers
Microsoft is even shipping a full Linux
kernel in a Windows 10 update that will
release later this month and it moved to
the chromium browser engine for edge
last year Microsoft is also
collaborating with open source
communities to create power toys for
Windows 10 and the companies now open
design philosophy philosophy may may
mean we'll see a lot more open source
efforts in Windows in the ears to come
we've got to take a quick break I've got
some cryptocurrency numbers for you and
more of this week's top tech stories are
coming up with Becca Ferguson don't go
anywhere
you
all right we don't have a crypto corner
for you this week but I wanted to still
share with you kind of where things are
at in the market we saw a dip about four
or five days ago where cryptocurrency
values went way down but right now
things are up like nine to ten percent
as far as Bitcoin goes we're at about
nine thousand six hundred ninety four
dollars and eight cents aetherium is at
two hundred and thirteen dollars and
twelve cents XRP is still just a micro
coil at twenty cents per coin let's look
at at some of those little guys like
well litecoin is not a little guy but I
should say that they're up 6.8% this
week at $45 and 14 cent Fiat value on
each individual coin let's see if I can
find turtle coin on our website category
five dot TV slash crypto report because
I'm curious where things are at these
days head on over to our website
category five dot TV slash crypto report
and you'll be able to do the same just
scroll down and you'll be able to see
the current value of each of these coins
Scalla kinda all over the place right
there and there's our turtle coin
holding fairly consistent a little bit
of a drop there but right now sitting at
a whole hundred and fifteen micro
pennies when is it gonna go to the moon
folks when is it going to go to the moon
I'll never know hey don't forget crypto
currency the whole market is volatile
it's always changing and we suggest that
you only invest what you can afford to
lose it's a lot of fun and it could go
really well for you but at the same time
it could go all sorts of awry so keep
that in mind now back to Becca in the
newsroom Thank You Robby last week we
learned that Facebook trained their own
chat BOTS AI using posts from reddit but
a team of musicologists have done
something similar setting their
songwriting bot loose on the social
platform a team of Dutch academics who
after an experiment in song writing
using artificial intelligence algorithms
we created a new musical genre
Eurovision techno fear the team used AI
techniques to generate a hit predictor
based on the melodies and rhythms of
more than 200 classics from the
Eurovision Song Contest an annual
celebration of pop music and Kitsch he's
included Abbas Waterloo and laureen's
euphoria 2012 also Sweden but to
generate the lyrics for the song of us
which the team members hoped to enter in
the inaugural AI Song Contest this year
they also used a separate AI system one
based on the social media platform
reddit it was this that resulted in a
rallying cry for a revolution with a
song that crescendos as a robotic voice
urges listeners to kill the government
kill the system like the notorious
a chatbot developed by Microsoft in 2016
that started spewing racist and sexist
sentiments after being trained on
Twitter the fault lay with the human
sources of data not the algorithms
Jane's speed control Eirik generator
stresses we do not condone these lyrics
she says the team nevertheless decided
to keep the anarchist sentiment to show
the perils of applying AI even to the
relatively risk-free environment of
Europop the use of AI and music
composition is now on the cusp of the
mainstream as more musicians and
songwriters look for tools that inspire
different types of music the AI song
contest organized by Dutch broadcaster V
Pro is one of the first events to take
the process of using algorithms to
compose original music out of academia
and avant-garde experimentation and into
the commercial world when the 1+8 Pro
was first announced the photo kromm mode
appeared to be little more than an
artistic color filter while it produces
some interesting results when
photographing trees and plants as it
turns out it allows the users to see
through smoke or fog or clothing the
filter seems to work by capturing
infrared light that is otherwise
invisible to the naked eye
there are many professional uses for
cameras that can see infrared light such
as allowing firefighters to see through
smoke but it's less common in a consumer
device like a smartphone although the
company has stressed that the photo
chrome filter cannot see through thick
materials it apologized for creating
privacy concerns and causing troubles
for oneplus users and other netizens the
company said in a statement on its
english-language forum while we think
this camera gives users the ability to
get more creative with the smartphone
photography we also understand the
concerns that have been raised oneplus
will remove the accidental x-ray
functionality from its oneplus pro 8 Pro
phone in an upcoming over-the-air update
the company said Tuesday it's also
temporarily disabling the camera filter
that can see through plastic and
clothing in the Chinese version of its
operating system until the update is
released choosing to leave it
operational in its global OS big thanks
to Roy W Nash and our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and if you
appreciate what we do become a patron at
patreon.com slash category 5 from the
category 5 TV newsroom i'm becca
ferguson thanks becca hey this has been
category 5 technology TV it's been
fantastic having you here don't forget
we are on twitter at category 5 TV i'm
personally on twitter at robbie ferguson
if you'd like to follow me I might just
follow you back
we're on Facebook you'll find us there
just do a quick search for category 5
technology TV our show is on roku so you
can just find us in the channel store
we're all over the place and of course
our website brings it all together at
category 5 dot TV so please check us out
and become a part of this community
there's a lot of exciting things going
on throughout all of the transitioning
that that we've been doing over this
past a little while and I'm
sited about what's to come here at
category five technology TV and ultra
excited that you're gonna be here with
us
so hey become a part of it category five
TV looking forward to chatting with you
soon and until next time I'm Robbie
Ferguson see ya
