here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom police Scotland has
unveiled a new aerial drone system to
assist them in searches for missing and
vulnerable people after initially
denying it the Nuclear Power Corporation
of India has now confirmed that their
network of nuclear power plants has been
hacked admit Stan already rocky ship
following their response to US sanctions
in Venezuela Adobe continues to falter
in the eyes of users making a security
blunder that exposed around 7.5 million
user records to the public and an
interesting and unexpected flaw and how
smart devices work has turned up as five
months after returning a rental car the
customer discovered that he can still
track the vehicle lock and unlock it and
even start and stop its engine stick
around the full details are coming up
later in the show this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week stop
texting
Linux bias Sascha Rickman in here the
top stories were following this key
police Scotland has unveiled a new
aerial drone system to assist them and
searches for missing and vulnerable
people the remotely piloted aircraft
system our pass can see things we can't
to try to work out where people are it
uses advanced cameras in neural computer
networks to spot someone it's looking
for from a speck up to 150 meters away
it's recognition software is compact
enough to be run on a phone with the
technology learning as it goes
Nicholas white of police Scotland's air
support unit says quote the drone itself
has very special sensors on it there's a
very highly powered optical camera which
allows us to see things quite clearly
from a good height also there's a
thermal imaging sensor which detects
heat end quote
he also reminds us the provides the
public that this technology is not for
invading privacy or spying quote we're
there to find people people who need our
help or people who are lost end quote
drones are becoming a common sight
outwardly this one looks no different
from others apart from a flashing blue
light but the data this drone gathers is
processed in real time the software can
discern an animal person or vehicle from
just a handful of pixels in a huge
moving color image how because they
taught it to Professor professor Carl
Shaw ski Dean of the School of Computing
engineering and physical sciences at UW
s said it could spot someone from up to
150 meters away he said quote it does
that by being shown images multiple
images time after time until it
recognizes what the objects are from
pretty much any orientation
end quote the term artificial
intelligence might conjure up images of
Terminator like thinking robots but in
this case it means a machine that can
learn the team taught it using hundreds
of hours of footage of police officers
in different clothing positions and
situations and there's another
breakthrough professor Chomsky said
quote it doesn't require sophisticated
supercomputing it really is quite a
low-cost approach to this it just simply
uses a mobile phone end quote
a search needs to police off just two
police officers to operate it one to fly
the drone and the other to use the
recognition software police Scotland has
already deployed three of the drones
across Scotland and the systems formal
launch will come on Thursday in Glasgow
mm-hmm
this is excellent thank you yes I agree
wholeheartedly this is the first time
we've had agreement I'm like I'm out of
place I have to like stand in the middle
yeah no what is wonderful what I really
liked about this is the fact that they
used AI - yeah train the the drone to
look for the images and filter out the
rest of the data you know what I love so
cool our phones have AI chips in them
now yes yeah like our phones our
smartphone the thing that fits in my
pocket has an AI chip I love it because
I use it for my camera my camera has AI
mode and it is astonishing have you ever
seen a polka phone f1 panoramic photo
using the AI mode like it is amazing how
is it all together you showed us your
birthday party yeah Luc's he's like hold
on when you move the camera it's but the
AI pieces it all together it makes it
work it was so it was great versus the
old you know cameras gone by where
somebody has half of a body in half of a
head yeah - two legs sticking out of
their back and lay yeah it just didn't
make any sense but the AI like says okay
well this is a person when let's that's
right but AI in the chip in the phone
can now be used for like controlling
this kind of technology I also like
it only takes two police officers to use
it which means that they can really do
more active searches everywhere knowing
that there's not a huge draw on the
police force yes so what all not just a
huge draw but as a police officer
because I obviously am one no but as a
police in the police force like if your
resources were so tapped that like you
know you know how any job is alright I
can't be I can't go through the like the
learning process and the training of
like this big onerous right system right
but I mean this thing that requires me
to like read manuals and manuals and
then like practice and practice and
learn it like they have to make it so
easy and easy as a relative term but
right easy in that like the AI does a
lot of the work so that they really like
they just need a quick training they
they know how to use it they've
practiced with it a little bit and they
can use it right it's as easy as that
and but I mean you've got the easy
aspect of it I mean obviously it's gonna
be more than just like we're simplifying
yeah yeah course but sure but the fact
is well like I mean we've had this in
our area over many years where somebody
will go missing there's tons of farmers
feel there's tons of forests it's easy
for somebody to get lost and you know
and in some cases it's led to fatalities
we've heard of that here yeah I could
think of one there was a teen boy who
ran away they did the grid search
pattern yeah and then he circled him
behind yeah and so they'd already done
the search but he came in behind because
he didn't stay put something like this
with a drone where you keep doing the
flybys it's gonna go oh hold on we got
them but a I like AI can figure it out
and say be the difference between life
and death and for that reason I'm like
this is amazing and to tell you the
truth because the cost now will be so
much lower because it's not a huge team
of people it means that you can extend
the search longer - that's true - people
folks to people to find someone who's
lost right amazing it'll be neat to see
if they could advance this to the point
where you can I mean
I'm simplifying it but kind of like a
dog you know it's like sniff that oh
that's what you're looking for it'd be
neat if say was a matter of a certain
type of vehicle or a certain item of
clothing it's like why not you need to
look for this yeah like I I mean we have
the the whole Amber Alert System and so
often like my phone would go off and
it's like oh this is the vehicle that
was used license plate this sure for
this I mean how cool would it be be like
hey they're heading along this highway
corridor get that drone you scan the
cars you go I think that's it that's
kind of like taking this and saying okay
little air because you could see how it
could advance with the AI mm it could be
used in this way sure what we're talking
about right now is the ability to find
that lost individual like think about so
like the Alzheimer's patient who walks
out of the the home and where are they
yeah like to be able to find them and
help them that's what this technology is
about to do that's what they're doing
that's incredible it would be
interesting to see if they could hone in
the skills for densely populated areas
sure yeah well I'm thinking say that's
absolutely but I think Times Square New
Year's Eve New Year's Eve in New York oh
boy
like the test focus right but I mean how
cool would it be at the point where they
could continue using imagery to training
go okay filter out this this is the
image we're looking we're getting that's
that's somewhere we're getting that's
not quite this I I you're looking at
Person of Interest yes
okay that's an amazing idea concept and
and technology yes this is not that yeah
this is like oK we've lost someone we
got to find them quickly before it's too
late
yes cold so sure really we need to find
them quick yeah and and that's what this
is for yeah sure those technologies are
great the Person of Interest idea that
premise of like every camera AI being
able to hone in on a person that's great
but that's that's more
more advanced that falls into like what
we were talking about with the Toronto
Airport where yeah they're they're
looking for for terrorism and they're
looking for people who are carrying
weapons and things like that's that's a
different thing altogether it is yes
this is helping those in need and that's
what this great that's what this is
targeting yes we're taking that
technology that could be used for those
types of like what you're looking
leaning toward yeah and using it for
just that the average like hey like a
kid who's walked out of their home right
and the parents are like where did they
go oh that by the time they realize that
they're out of the house like this
happen and so now they've got a
technology that using AI can hopefully
find that child or that that Alzheimer's
patient before it's too late that's what
this is about and that's that's really
an exciting use of this technology and
they are stressing that that's what this
is for it's not for spying it's not for
no AI elating the privacy of the
residents or anything like that this is
to help those who are in need yes
I'm really happy that you like that good
news story the next yeah there's so much
agreement around here is really weird
after initially denying it the Nuclear
Power Corporation of India has now
confirmed that their network of nuclear
power plants has been hacked
malware has been found on the
administrative network of the Kuti
Coulomb nuclear power plants the
admission came a day after the company
issued a denial that any attack would
affect the plants control system the
breach was first detected on September
4th associate director aka Nima's stated
quote the matter was immediately
investigated by the India Department of
atomic energy specialists the
investigation revealed that the infected
PC belonged to a user who was connected
to the Internet connected to the
connected network used for
administrative purposes
this is isolated from the critical
internal network the networks are being
continuously monitored and quote it's
not clear if data was stolen from the
network but the nuclear power plant was
not the only facility reported being
compromised when asked why he called the
malware an attack the malware attack an
act of war threat analyst Phu crush
Singh
a formal former analyst for India's
National Technical Research Organisation
said quote it was because of the second
target which I can't disclose of as of
now unquote while the attack might not
have given direct access to nuclear
power nuclear power control networks it
could have been a part of an effort to
establish a persistent presence on
nuclear plant on the nuclear plant
networks as a paper published in May by
the International Committee of the Red
Cross on the human cost of cyber
operations pointed out quote the
majority of the computer devices in the
world are only one or two steps away
from a trusted system that a determined
attacker could compromise end quote
the paper points out that quote
pre-emptive compromised of trusted
systems would make attacks significantly
easier end quote and that establishing a
persistent presence on a network could
aid in such things as supply chain
attacks attempts to use software update
processes or other potential
opportunities to move isolated networks
to deliver an attack in the future while
the administrative network of the
Nuclear Power Corporation was likely not
a good route for such a such an attack
given the standards for nuclear control
system security
it certainly could provide information
about maintenance operations that would
be useful for espionage or for a future
attempted cyber attack so yeah then
there's that all this informational
thing yeah there's that
it really makes you think though about
like because we've talked about
ransomware we've talked about
infiltrations on networks and people
getting hacked because they had remote
desktop enabled and things like that but
but then you think about okay well but
my computer you know is my computer a
key computer right and here is just a
perfect example of well maybe it's not a
key computer but it has administrator
access yeah or perhaps in some cases has
access to network resources network
shares and things like that so if an
attacker an infiltrator can gain access
to just a computer on the network of the
nuclear power authority yeah it doesn't
have to be the main computers no it has
access to those yeah so if they then
gain access to this and figure out hey
what kind of access can we gain based on
this they may not even exploit that they
may just take that to the dark web
mm-hmm say guess what I have to the
highest bidder right it's scary it's a
sobering thought that that that's even a
possibility like it has happened now
it's a pause like now it's a possibility
that any amount of fallout could happen
from this right well I mean it really
wants just opens our eyes yeah yeah I I
mean when you're going through the news
story I mean my initial thought was oh
no how deep does this system go as far
as you know could you overload the
reactors or shut them down like but then
it's like oh you know you got the
separate component because of the
regulations that I'm thinking okay but
if this is something that is connected
to the rest of these say external
network not necessarily the internal
core maybe it's about a matter of
shipments of I mean I don't know nuclear
technology at a theoretical urks
theoretical yeah maybe it's like hey we
need to refresh our uranium we got to
get a supply chain in or get something
because it's talking about the supply
chain Network which is logistics
that's purchase
get it here doing there so maybe it's a
matter of hey is there a uranium
shipment Oh let's hijack that truck and
yeah now we're talking about missing
uranium like I mean this kind of I mean
the sky's limit as far as the external
stuff that could be impacting and it
just it comes back to again the same
deal you have to think security and it's
not just on your your main critical
components its security on everything
you gotta be smart
and the thing is too that the hacker and
and along this line the hackers who are
responsible for this infiltration
they're not saying let's gain access to
this so that we can gain access to that
truckload of uranium that's coming in no
they're saying let's gain access let's
write whatever access we can get okay
we've got access what out what are we
doing what can we do with this yeah okay
so now we've got access to to order
processing we've got access to the files
oh who knows what right like it could be
any number of things but it it's it's
just an entry point it could lay dormant
for years and they may not know it we
know from NASA that they had this
dormant Raspberry Pi that was that was
infiltrating their network for who knows
how long and and somebody had just
simply installed it on their network and
it gave them access through SSH to be
able to access the network which means
that for those who are familiar with SSH
like Popey for example we know that we
can create a reverse proxy into that SSH
device yeah so that means we now have
full access to the entire network which
is scary it certainly can be I worry
that there'll be more to come in this
news story for the fact that in the
quote the second breach wasn't like that
the non-disclosed one yeah there's more
but we can't tell you about that yeah
yeah and I mean that also makes you
wonder is this a matter of who we got in
here let's try this system in this
country because I mean it's not like
you're walking to Walmart be like oh yes
I'm gonna buy this nuclear security
technology software off the shelf like
there's none can do that in America
there's not gonna be too many producers
of software that runs a nuclear power
plant so it's like okay we got into this
one here because of their lack security
now let's try this next you know maybe
it's a matter of going around the globe
and fishing for those holes until
finally you had you know the Moby Dick
it's like we got our well it's Jeff no
conspiracy theory but still okay we've
got to take a quick break the crypto
report and more of this week's top tech
stories are coming up don't go anywhere
[Music]
welcome back to the category-five TV
newsroom now we're looking at the
cryptocurrency report this week and as
the crypto report on category 5 evolves
please note we now have a official web
site or webpage that you can visit in
order to keep up with the crypto report
so if you head over to our website
category 5 dot TV click on shows and
then you'll see the category 5 TV
newsroom and there is a link directly to
the crypto report what that gives you is
the like the average information all the
data that we use here on the crypto
report in order to give you what is
current for cryptocurrency but you can
see that throughout the week keeps
changing it's a daily update ok so what
we do is we create averages for you
based on all of the information that
we're able to accumulate from various
sources online and so then we take that
data we create averages for use so that
it basically kind of makes it a little
more accessible it's a little easier to
understand and and things like being
able to see graphs that just makes sense
to see hey where's Bitcoin yeah week
where's turtle coin this week it's doing
really well by the way so I can't write
basically rich yeah speaking of the
cryptocurrency report this week now
things are fairly static as a matter of
fact Bitcoin gaining only 123 bucks so
it's sitting at nine thousand three
hundred and nineteen dollars and eighty
cents okay so it's pretty static
Facebook Libre is still not trading
we've got light coin at sixty three
dollars and six cents up a little bit
everything's up just a little bit
aetherium also a one eighty 409 so it's
gaining just 61 cents per aetherium coin
some about Minero up at sixty to ninety
seven the US dollar equivalent on the
coin Scalla
looking at the little micro coins is at
0.32 and as I mentioned turtle coin is a
real performer this week
yeah astonishingly sitting now
we're talking about a gain from last
week at 0.26 ten thousandth of a cent
yep to this week
zero point four three that's what about
a 60% jump a huge jump for turbo passive
and if we look at those graphs on
category five dot TV slash crypto a
report you'll see that turtle coin this
week has gone kind of like this and then
and it's that one coin that's just going
up but it's a microt coin yes so we're
talking ten thousandths yeah a cent but
considering it is a microt coin it's
very easy to mine it's very easy to
purchase or invest in and very
affordable it's a good way to get in on
cryptocurrency but because of that it's
it's like it's not worth a lot mm-hmm
you have to have a lot of them for it to
be worth anything but seeing that trend
and seeing that it is growing very very
quickly if that's really encouraging for
those who are investing in micro coins
yeah but keep in mind the cryptocurrency
market is always changing it's always
volatile and it never closes
that means it's open 24/7 that means if
you go to bed at 11 o'clock at night and
get up at 4 yeah it's not ready yeah
it's completely flipped on its head so
like you got to keep that in mind and
and what our recommendation here
category 5 TV is is simply to only
invest and only put into cryptocurrency
what you can afford to lose because you
know if you take that approach if you
say you know I'm probably gonna lose
this then hey if you gain you're just
doing great exactly but I don't want you
to invest in something that hey if you
lose you're really losing okay so I want
you to invest only what you can afford
to lose
sascha if we can head back to your news
room because I know you've got a couple
of great stories for us this week sure
do admit Stan already rocky ship
in the eyes of users and making a
security blender that exposed around 7.5
million user records to the public
security researcher Bob daya Shankar
together with a compare attack
discovered the unsecured database Adobe
had left the data of its users on
publicly-accessible server specifically
the researchers discovered an unsecured
elastic database containing data of
Adobe Creative Cloud users anyone with
access to the Internet could easily view
the data without requiring any
authentication the unprotected server
contained around 7.5 million records of
the users the data included personal
information of the individuals such as
email addresses member ID country date
of account creation subscription status
payment status Adobe products in use and
time since last login it also leaked
information about whether the user is an
Adobe employee or not despite the
explicit personal information it leaked
the unsecured database did not expose
any financial data or passwords the
researchers discovered the unsecured
database on October 19th 2019 upon
discovering the database they
immediately notified Adobe about it
following their report the company
secured the database the same day
however daya Shankar that the database
remained publicly accessible for about a
week it also remains unconfirmed whether
anyone else has access to the database
during this time compare a text report
States quote the information exposed in
this leak could be used against Adobe
Creative Cloud users in targeted
phishing emails and scams fraudsters
could pose as a Adobe or a related
company and trick users into giving up
further information such as passwords
for example end quote
users should remain very careful and be
overly skeptical if they receive any
emails that appear to be from Adobe
especially if it asks for passwords or
sensitive data or requires the user to
click a link or call a phone number ok
so anyone who has the Internet yes has
access to 7.5 million user records yep
yes anyone who has the Internet yes
think about that for now that's a really
big blunder that's like anyone anybody
anyone watching this
yep do you remember Mission Impossible
first movie like everything that Tom
Cruise had to go through to get the NOC
list no you're going way back dude it's
like all the read you just watch this
didn't you no no I've watched any years
but I'm listened to the story and I'm
thinking have we gotten like relaxed as
a society that we're going we got like
super secure Nakhla sand and now you've
got it's like a we got all this
information it's just out there yet my
grandma could find it I suspect if there
is a are they an employee yes or no
column I feel like it's from it must be
from an employee computer is not on the
list of yeah it's it's unfortunate that
this was such a blunder by Adobe because
they are a respected name within the
industry I mean everybody goes all Adobe
I use Adobe I know Adobe I go ah Adobe
right but here's the thing like I hear
this story to go if it was a Facebook I
go oh come on again but I hear Adobe I'm
like really
Adobe yeah come on look there that is
the core of who I flash but maybe we
didn't get relaxed I think we just have
never got to the point where we
understand the importance of security
like as a general public like it's not
that they relax themselves
it's that nobody's ever been as secure
as they ought to be I think as a society
we've gotten too relaxed I think we go
oh I've got encryption oh I've got we
put too much trust in the software that
totes all these wonderful things and we
forget about the very basic security I
think I honestly think that I mean and I
don't know a lot about Adobe's history
but I think that something like this
would lead me to believe that maybe
they've never been on the forefront of
security there you go they're the ones
who make Flash
okay buddy so here's the challenge with
this one is you've got all this
information that's out there and right
at the end of the story you're like oh
people you could get these emails trying
to get your login information how does a
dhobi go out there and contact 7 million
people what a dhobi that's gonna do that
I know but how do you go out there and
go by the way you're part of the list
don't give her your information but you
might want to update it or do some sort
of security measures without them going
really really I'm sure you're not here
to sell me duct cleaning really there's
to be honest there's no reason why you
should ever be giving that information
ever anyway I agree this is just another
one of those stories that makes me think
ok well hopefully the people that I am
in contact with on the daily or love or
just general humanity knows that if
somebody says hey type your password in
here you're not gonna listen you know
this really drives us to that mindset of
thinking that when we sign up with these
companies for their services we need to
use fake names we need yes fake account
information like because keep in mind
okay so passwords weren't exploited this
time so but it does go to show that we
have to use a different password on
every service that we use online if
passwords were exploited what other
services would have been exploited of
ours oh just like if we use the same
password on our online banking and on
our Twitter account which people do then
a lot of people do okay you take care of
that I know I just need like I need I
need a cleanse of it like I need because
I've started but then you get all
panicky and things like LastPass can
help with that because you can do a
local dump too like a comma separated
value file yes that you can then open
into LibreOffice calc
Excel or whatever you use and do do it
look through and see where you've used
the same password over and over again
yeah and fix that right go into those
services and correct it and then delete
your file that you've created but it
really just goes to show that like when
you put your information out there we
trust that someone like Adobe they're
big and we can trust them with our data
like we're talking about our address our
payment information our financial
information and our account information
and and enough to probably do some some
rudimentary identity theft certainly
phishing scams and spear phishing are
big concerns right now because any
customer who is exploited like 7.5
million people here folks like this is
not like 200 people this is 7.5 million
Adobe customers who have been exposed
and you're gonna hit some people who are
not very tech savvy and when those
people receive those emails that look
exactly like an Adobe email saying hey
your account has been compromised click
here to reset your password and it takes
you to add 0b3 dot-com yep and lets you
enter your password now they've got your
password they didn't get it the first
time that they got it down yeah yeah and
now that's the same password that you
use on your online banking and your
Twitter account your Facebook account
and everything else and that's where it
all starts right and once they get your
email account well then they can find
your bank and they can say forgot
password send me the email see and
that's why for things like this I mean
maybe I'm just a little bit over
paranoid but the fact that I have 15
different emails like some people like
you're not to get 15 but I do I have
jeff 101 nailed up but I have some
emails for certain things I've some
emails for others okay that way I don't
have those linked systems yes and it's
just it's one more little layer of
security like okay if I get breached on
this email but I mean even within those
email systems I also have different
password systems
those are individualized so can I just
save you a lot of trouble and just say
you know what two-factor authentication
is the answer Jeff yeah I know so that
if your email account got compromised
well they've got your password right but
not everybody does two-factor
authentication they don't have your
phone but Gmail does G yes there are
some that do set it up I know but it's
not all services recognized that I truly
wish there was to fact what service does
not have two-factor authentication and
you don't have to say it out loud but if
they do not offer two-factor
authentication
move on there are let's just move on if
your bank doesn't have two factor
authentication for online banking oh
yeah they're banking wrong yep move on
yes I've get a different Bank they've
got it I don't think any of my banks
don't have to factor that but right
there are services that I use and with
an organization that I'm that I
volunteer with they use other services
that are pretty specific to what they
use and some of those are you know
you've you can't get other options out
there it's it's that software and that
service is individualized and they don't
offer to factor so it's like you can't
go somebody somewhere else and it's not
well that's that's a huge failing on
them and for those for those companies
who can't offer it it don't give I don't
real info I don't think don't give me
anything it's just that they haven't but
then don't give them real info your name
the other way don't look you guys want
to say that in your Terms of Service
that I have to give you my home address
well you know what you don't have to
factor authentication so I'm giving you
my postal box sure period yep there's no
way I'm giving you my home address when
you don't even have to factor
authentication period that's how we as
users have to be because if we're not
putting our foot down to protect our
data and the confidentiality of our
lives then we're as much to blame as the
service providers who don't offer those
protections but I think a lot of that is
industry mindset and I think the
industry nest needs to get to the
standpoint of going okay we can't rely
upon the public to
protect themselves we have to go that
extra level and I think so often it's we
got to get this out we got to push it
out we're on a budget we got to move
we'll deal with this and we'll get to
that other stuff later and I think
that's I think that's a problem there
are big problems when it comes to
budgets absolutely there we're not even
gonna go there okay where we are wants
to move on an interesting an unexpected
flaw in how smart devices work has
turned up as five months after returning
a rental car the customer discovered
that he can still track the vehicle lock
and unlock it and even start and stop
its engine when massamba Sinclair rented
a Ford Expedition from Enterprise
rent-a-car last May he was excited to
connect it to Ford Pass the app allows
drivers to use their phones to remotely
start and stop the engine lock and
unlock the doors and track the vehicles
precise location he says quote I enjoyed
it and logged into Ford pass to be able
to access vehicle features from my phone
such as locking unlocking and starting
the engine I liked the idea of it more
than I found it useful the UI does look
good and work well though end quote
now Sinclair's opinion of mobile apps
and rental cars is decidedly less
favorable that's because five months
after he returned the vehicle on May
31st his app continues to have control
over the vehicle despite multiple other
people renting the SUV in the
intervening months Ford passed still
allow Sinclair to track the location of
the vehicle lock and unlock it and start
or stop its engine
Sinclair has brought the matter to
Ford's attention both through its
website and multiple times on Twitter so
far four it has been nothing to kill his
access he says of the setup quote all it
took was me downloading the app and
entering the VIN and then confirming
connectivity through the infotainment
system and quote while he believes there
is probably a way to disassociate his
phone from the car itself
he's right in thinking it's crazy to put
the onus on renters to have to do that
not to mention the security questions
that that raises
I kind of feel like this is like an
issue on the car rental companies yeah
yeah yeah oh I fell I feel like they
need to have like like okay add to your
like when you're vacuuming out the car
when you're cleaning the seats you've
got to reset the computer right right
like that has to be part of the
methodology so what's funny is I pre
read the stories right okay so I this
morning you loaded up the news stories
two people read them make sure that I
pronounce everything right and then I
checked my calendar and I'm like oh yeah
my cars getting fixed that's to pick up
my rental today
does it have I didn't even I haven't I
just picked it up and on the way here
but I am know totally do hey if you rent
a Tesla you can actually control it like
a remote-control car with my arm no with
your app yeah so like totally like Zia
hey hey if you rent a Tesla let's see
what kind of I haven't rented a Tesla
but I have rented other vehicles I mean
just my commuting job I've had car
accidents so you get it's in the shop
you get a rental yeah and I have not yet
rented a car that has Bluetooth
capabilities that doesn't have all of
the previous users who have connected
data removed oh yeah there was one that
I picked up and I chuckled and I went
back into the to the dealer and I say
you spotted this I was a user I had on
the rancher I haven't even left the
rental lot and I walked in and I'm like
do you guys clear the computer yeah uh
what are you talking about I'm like I
want to show you something there's the
previous while I'm assuming the previous
eight renters but there was eight
renters Bluetooth information on there
including their GPS searches come on it
was all in the computer like this is
ridiculous man so that is the
information but I mean that's like
within the vehicles database not even
talking about connection remotely and
I'm like yeah maybe like I've got an
idea guys and be like
for sure yeah but what is the answer
because like if the car manufacturers
start putting like a kill button that
like resets everything then like that's
the greatest gag like at a party like
just push the kill button on everyone's
car but I feel like if you're gonna buy
like it's you can get you can contact
that by there should be what if I bought
a car that somebody previously owned and
they start killing my engine on sure you
know how you can put the governor's on
the speed of like NASCAR cars sure okay
so why would you they're NASCAR you want
them but they should be able to put like
a security governor on that has to stay
on if it's a rent rental car that's
right take it off if it's a privately
owned and that's where I was going is if
you are a fleet based rental company
like you know hoods or something yeah
that's like oh we're you know Ford we
want to buy you know a fleet of 20
vehicles are going to put it across
nationwide outlets that you have it
built in to the software that there is
an automatic reset and for nobody like
Ford or any other who's got the ability
to program go hey you know we've got
this feature
well it's 50 bucks a car don't worry but
it's because of the user data that you
okay this is a great feature you honor
the days where there used to be a valet
key you have a regular key a valet key
wouldn't open the glove compartment
right they need the equivalent of that
for data yeah can I just say yeah we're
having this discussion and we've had
this discussion for all of two minutes
and 30 seconds yep and I think we are
we've got the answer in that okay so so
these big companies that like Ford
because Ford is the example yeah why
have they not had this discussion for
two minutes and 30 seconds to say okay
let's just say how long have you been
away from your car now yours is in for
service so that's an interesting case
how long have you been away from your
car right now since 4:30 perfect how
long have you been away from your car
two and a half hours okay how long will
you be away from your car two days so
that what's today the six so you've got
like in a week okay so so let's say a
week yes so I miss it already
are you ever away from your car for a
week
vacations pretty rare though right so if
I'm away from my car for four days
my phone app disconnects from my car
unless I approach my car and then it
reconnects and it says you've been away
from your car for four days enter your
PIN yeah and it shows the pin on the
screen in the car that makes sense okay
just to throw that out there if I'm away
from my car for two weeks it just
deactivates the connection altogether
let's just say okay there's a there on
the screen in the car it shows a pin and
on my phone if I have not been at the
car physically within the last four days
I have to enter that pin into my phone
it's afford to Japan Mart and that's a
little solved answer we solved it why
the heck aren't they doing that this is
what we do here we fix the world's
problems but that just makes sense like
that's that's like stupid yeah so far
are you watching cuz yeah come on now
just do it and like call it the cat five
feature here or something yeah exactly
my car doesn't have bluetooth though big
thanks to Ray W Nash in our community of
yours for submitting stories to us this
week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight lytx bias and if you
appreciate what we do become a patron at
patreon.com slash newsroom
category 5 TV newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman
and I'm Robbie Ferguson
