first coming up in the category five TV
newsroom access to Photoshop and other
Adobe software has been cut off in
Venezuela as the firm seeks to comply
with US sanctions a dog who survives in
the rubble left in the wake of Hurricane
durian in the Bahamas has earned its new
name miracle the official Sesame Street
online store along with thousands of
other retailers has been targeted by a
credit card stealing hack an facebook's
holy breath cryptocurrency coalition is
falling apart as eBay Visa MasterCard
and stripes jump ship stick around the
full details are coming up later in the
show this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
slave Linux bias I'm Sasha Rickman and
here at the top stories for following
this week access to photoshop and other
with US sanctions Adobe had moved to a
subscription only model which means
users are not able to buy standalone
versions of the latest Adobe software
Adobe said users have until October 28th
to download their content after which
the accounts themselves will be
deactivated it is unclear whether other
technology firms will follow suit the
firm explained quote the US government
issued executive order one three eight
eight for the practical effect of which
is to prohibit almost all transactions
and services between US companies
entities and individuals to Venezuela to
remain compliant with this order adobe
is deactivating all accounts in
Venezuela and quote it said it had no
idea how long the sanctions would be in
effect but added quote we will continue
to monitor developments closely and will
make every effort to restore services to
Venezuela as soon as it is legally
permissible to do so end quote
it said it was quote unable to issue
refunds and quote because the sanctions
included quote sales services support
refunds credits etc info as that is it
just me or does that show a real
potential potentially disastrous
downfall to cloud-based services yeah
like yeah like when a government of the
company that is manufacturing the
software or distributing the cloud
suddenly says hey sanctions are in place
and now they have to cut off areas of
the world that are their customer base
who are paying customers yes yeah Adobe
you've switched to that model and I
immediately switched away from Adobe
yeah right that's me ooh
Microsoft is switching to that model and
and forcibly switching to that model yes
and you know how I feel about
yes other companies are following suit
but it's interesting though that you're
seeing these changes in tech that when
they first came out a lot of companies
like hey this is great we're gonna
modernize our services we're gonna make
things more efficient and now you're
seeing the fallout of jumping to
something where it hasn't necessarily
been fully thought-out until you start
seeing the the repercussions of it then
you go on oh my goodness this has hurt
our user base yeah and so it makes you
wonder if there's value in the cost
standpoint of staying with traditional
in-house hosting but I mean you've then
you've got the security aspect of it
like I know a lot of companies because I
deal with many of them in in my line of
work I don't even know how many you deal
with but a lot of them are going
cloud-based simply for the fact of its
cost savings went off to worry about the
security infrastructure not our problem
somebody else's problem yeah but in this
case they could be you know deeply in
trouble mm-hmm how do you get around
that it's a really tough thing and I'm
all for hey if I buy software I want to
be able to install it as many times as I
want so I I have Telestream Wirecast
runs our show yes I have an executive
all installer that I can install on my
computer if everything failed I can just
reinstall it it's not dependent on any
cloud infrastructure or anything like
that
to make it work same thing with Libre
Office or my entire desktop operating
system which is Linux I don't have to
have access to the cloud in order to be
able to use those programs and and maybe
it would just be nice if if these
companies were to provide on-premise
cloud solutions sure or personally
hosted cloud solutions that's how I
program well that's what I try to do I
think we covered in the news but the
fact that Russia is a Russia's trying to
have their own standalone internet that
it completely is walled from the world I
haven't heard but okay I think it's
Russia but it's something like that
kicks in what happens for companies that
are using cloud-based services where
their internet is restricted mm-hmm
what happens then so tough yeah yeah I
guess we'll see and it is China like
that China is definitely like that with
the Great Firewall yeah sure
but it really comes down to like my
point has always been like this is the
worldwide web people those a gallop a
wall a LOD well you know like let's
let's keep it worldwide but and that's
why I think may like this is a final
thought for Robbie but maybe maybe maybe
they're gonna end up pushing people to
the dark web they might be maybe that
could be bad
not necessary well yeah for lack of
control it's the same reason we're all
switching to cryptocurrency it's the
same reason we've got Facebook trying to
bring out Libre because they don't want
to be at the mercy of the government who
says we're gonna cut you off or we're
gonna stop the the transactions the the
the business and certainly in this case
well hey if you could have your software
on on the dark web well then what's to
stop you yeah let's sure if the cloud
was on the dark web right yeah yeah yeah
hmm just as some crazy food for thought
but I think that will inevitably that's
gonna end up happening that's what the
government is causing right with all of
these that's what they're driving people
to need mm-hmm which is really a
disappointing and scary thing people who
don't understand technology making the
technology decisions that are driving
the people who do understand technology
to make decisions that are separate of
those decision makers that's how that's
an extreme view but that's a debate for
another day it's just a thought it's
just a passing thought that hey this is
probably that's the answer yeah I know
no doubt Psalm will for sure but I don't
know if you'll like you'll see the
industry move that way but why not like
that's a rhetorical but why not
all it would take is somebody to say oh
yeah it's not bad to move to the dark
web and I'm sure yeah I don't have to be
on the public web I can be on the dark
web and and I can sell my services
anywhere in the world at any price that
I want in cryptocurrency yeah yeah
that's possible why not hmm
okay our show is moving to the dark web
next week you can watch us in China now
a dog who survived in the rubble left in
the wake of Hurricane durian in the
Bahamas has earned its new name
miracle miracle was found in his
starving state after being trapped under
an air-conditioner in the town of Marsh
Harbor on the Ibaka Islands
it's believed miracle was trapped for
more than three weeks
hurricane durian struck the Bahamas last
month killing at least 50 people and
leaving hundreds unaccounted for but
through the use of technology some good
is coming of the efforts of a dog rescue
operation out of Florida big dog ranch
rescue founder and president Laurie
Simmons said quote what an incredible
story that we were able to discover this
dog alive after being trapped for so
long end quote
big dog ranch rescue used a drone to
find miracle they were able to detect a
small heat patch and sent rescue workers
trudging through debris to reach the dog
Simmons
urged people to remember that the crisis
in the Bahamas isn't over and that there
are many more animals who are likely
hiding and scared of loud equipment
being used to clear debris the dog
rescue is using technology such as
drones and special recovery teams in
order to locate more animals who might
be trapped under debris in Marsh Harbor
big dog ranch rescue has saved more than
130 dogs in the Bahamas since Hurricane
durian hit in early September and
several dogs have been reunited with
owners the rescue has saved more than 27
thousand dogs since it was founded more
than ten years ago there's more
information available at beady RR dot
org so cool the tech can be used like
this I know what I like about this is
just this week I was looking at rescue
dogs in our area because oh my wife and
I are talking about another dog and
there was a bunch that were rescue dogs
the hurricane and I was like all the
earlier this is cool here in Canada yeah
right in our in our town yeah now none
of them were miracle but I do like this
because I remember one of them I think
it was the New Orleans you know when
that flood happened and the dogs that
were found way out in the ocean living
on the Dubrow because it was so compact
yeah I love this this is great it's like
yes more of it yeah drones with heat
sensors are doing so cool like they're
they keep popping up in the stories
because they're doing really neat things
yeah and this is consumer accessible
hardware yeah like this is stuff that we
can build our own thermal sensor
all right build it onto a drone and and
send it up into the air and find dogs
that need rescuing it would be neat if
some of those drones had like a harness
that could collect the dog oh now we're
talking a micro drone oh I'm thinking a
great day seeing that fly through the
air and it'd be pretty neat when dogs
fly thanks for your input Jeff you're
really glad you're here yeah okay we've
got to take a quick break the crypto
report and more this week's top stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
[Music]
[Applause]
the official Sesame Street online store
along with thousands of other retailers
has been targeted by a credit card
stealing hack card details were
collected by a piece of malicious
software it dubbed JavaScript cookie the
code was found in shopping cart software
built by Volusion which has 20,000 small
business customers the issue was spotted
by Marcel a forum researcher at security
firm checkpoint while shopping for toys
on the Sesame Street store Volusion said
that it had resolved the issue quote
within a few hours of notification and
quote although its statement came a day
after the revelations they said quote we
are coordinating with authorities on
this matter and continue to enhance our
systems that detect and prevent
unauthorized access to user accounts
unquote it confirmed that credit card
information had been stolen but quote
not other associated personally
identifying details and quote adding
that it was not aware quote of any
fraudulent activity connected to it end
quote
in his original blog post mr. affirm
said quote the compromise is not only
unique to Sesame Street's store and most
likely any e-commerce website hosted on
Volusion is probably running malicious
code and posting the credit card info of
the consumers to the outsider domain
unquote two other security researchers
from Trend Micro and risk IQ also
confirmed the issue which was reported
to both the developers and some of the
retailer's affected the Sesame Street
site was taken offline at the time and
instead visitors saw a message that read
quote we are currently performing
scheduled maintenance and updates on the
website and quote Volusion provides
shopping cart software to thousands of
merchants and according to mr. a firm
has had 185 million orders placed via
its software amounting to twenty eight
billion dollars in transactions I have
so many like verbal memes running in my
head
along here and tell me how to get to
your credit card info yes four five one
no I mean this is truly unfortunate
because I mean at the end of the day
because of the nature of Sesame Street
now granted that wasn't the target the
wall service that's where it was
discovered but but that's right but the
fact it's you're talking about families
who have most likely families who have
purchased things for their kids so
you're you're targeting now credit cards
of families that likely high bills
struggling to make ends meet like that's
the unfortunate thing to use
realistically if I was struggling to pay
my bills I would not be shopping
directly on the Sesame Street store
where everything is three times the
price I'm just saying just saying why
I'm here why do we keep them around okay
but the interesting thing about this
story is the fact that they've said it's
it's not just Sesame Street it's the
whole yes service has anybody else
notice this like oh for sure I mean you
would say it's now public knowledge
yeah or the users right so you think
about like and this again like we go
back to cloud-based services right so
you think like and I don't want to name
names if names are coming to mind and I
don't want to say any because then
someone will say oh well Robbie said
that you know this particular but you
think about cloud services that you
utilize day to day and what happens if
one of those cloud services gets
compromised and that's what's happened
with Volusion so because of that this
injected code in their cloud software
now everybody who utilizes it all of
them are affected so thousands and
thousands of online shops yeah
collecting credit card credit card data
yeah and sending it to bad guys right is
there a way if you are an e-commerce
purchaser to determine what service is
being used
as a customer yeah that's tough because
realistically Jeff the payment
processing occurs at the final step
right right so so I'm gonna take your
information first on my server and then
I'm gonna throw you over through like a
an ajax query or possibly like a PHP
redirect if i'm using PHP or but
generally it's gonna be like an ajax
query which is going to happen at the
final step where i've entered my credit
card number and then there's an HTTP
query or possibly a WebSocket that's
opened up to be able to query that data
from the payment processor so right
Volusion PayPal maneras TD whoever
they're using right so Volusion being
that processor now how do I know if
they've got something on there and it's
compromised right so realistically no
yeah that's tough and that's why it was
a smart hack yeah because they they got
it your best bet is really don't use a
high limit accessible credit card when
you're shopping online just don't do it
good call Sasha advice yeah I've even
made the suggestion people have said to
me you know how do i because I sell
online right how do I know that you're
legit what happens if you're here look
go over to the drug store get yourself a
15 like this is a $48 order get yourself
a $50 MasterCard just a prepaid you know
and then come back to me and process
your order you don't have to worry about
it there's online services that allow
you to do that whether that you know
here nor there yeah there are services
that allow you to do that I'm guilty
right now I make online purchases with
my just regular old day-to-day credit
card but it's in my mind and I really
need to do it to just get a little
pay-as-you-go load it up
yeah it's smart I set a daily limit on
my card so that and I call my bank and
you know turn off the tap set the daily
limit and and so I make them do these
things so that I have to be the one who
makes that decision yeah so if I want to
make a ten thousand dollar purchase well
I have to make that phone call right and
it only takes me ten like maybe five ten
minutes to do that but it's
of mine oh yeah yeah worth it it wasn't
covered in the story but it'd be
interesting to know what happens with
Visa Debit or like those credit card
based debit cards and if through this
hack they have access to bank accounts
no no no no but like you know you can go
to any major bank and get a yeah like a
credit card debit card where it works
online purchases like a credit card but
it comes out of your bank account so
thinking about that Jeff so and for
those of you who have ever thought oh my
debit card has a visa logo on it now so
I can use that for online purchases
that's smart
right no because if you bought through a
Volusion powered website they now have
your debit card which continually gets
your money all the time right so every
time you deposit your paycheck they can
now withdraw it see so just don't do it
at least this is one of those things
where the bank is stupid yeah there's
stupid peace of mind in credit cards
having the insurance and they really do
refund when something goes right yeah
whereas with your debit yeah banks are a
whole different kettle of fish
interestingly enough this happened with
my wife's Visa Debit about six months
ago where there was a bunch of purchases
in California suddenly showing up
somebody spent about $300 and she's like
what is going on within probably 12
hours she had her money back which was
great but same deal because it was
connected to her bank account she's like
okay let's disconnect that feature yeah
don't need it
don't yeah there's nothing she do yeah
that's some wisdom for you and for those
of you who are watching live and in
discord yeah I mean hymens I agree but I
don't want to say it on air because then
it's an endorsement
definitely some good services there and
and some interesting stuff to check out
so take a look at those services that
are being talked about because yes there
are services out there that will allow
you to get temporary or even limited
credit card numbers that are virtual
yeah so I can say okay
my Amazon credit-card number which is a
virtual credit-card number has a $100
limit so if anyone ever compromises
Amazon the most they'll get is a hundred
bucks yeah right so that's where those
types of services that are being
discussed in the in the discord come in
for those of you who are watching live I
just simply can't endorse them live on
the air that's all right now if you're
just gonna like throw money by the
wayside and switch right over to
cryptocurrency the next area will
interest you no good good
Facebook's Libra cryptocurrency
Coalition is falling apart as eBay Visa
MasterCard and stripe jump ship the news
came just one week after PayPal
announced its withdrawal as government
regulators continue to scrutinize the
plans eBay's stripe MasterCard Visa and
Mercado Pedro have all dropped out of
facebook's libra cryptocurrency projects
in statements following the news the
companies said they respect and see a
potential in the project but have chosen
to focus on other efforts a stripe
spokesperson said in a statement that
the company quote is supportive of
projects that aim to make online
commerce more accessible for people
around the world end quote
stripe will quote remain open to working
with the Libra Association at a later
stage
the spokesperson said a visa
spokesperson said the company quote will
continue to evaluate Libra saying our
ultimate decision will be determined by
a number of factors including the
associations ability to fully satisfy
all requisite regulatory expectations
visas continued interest in Libra stems
from our belief that well regulated
blockchain based networks could extend
the value of secure digital payments to
a greater number of people in places
particularly in emerging and developing
markets unquote the original coalition
of 28 corporate backers of the Libra
cryptocurrency seems to be dwindling as
lawmakers continue to question how it
will impact sovereign currencies and how
the project's leaders can ensure the
consumers protection
heyyou is now the only payments company
continuing to back the cryptocurrency
beyond payment processors though
original backers uber and lyft said that
there has been no change to their
involvement in the project the hackers
the backers abandoning the project may
have found safety in numbers after
PayPal announced its exit news that eBay
stripe and MasterCard were each dropping
out quickly following one another
indicating all three had likely been
thinking about leaving during the same
period the decisions came ahead of a
planned Libre Association council
meeting which was held on Monday Libre
libros cryptocurrency project took
center stage in front of us lawmakers
once again as key Facebook staff
testified in front of the House
Financial Services Committee that
same-day booking Holdings confirmed it
is also leaving the Libre Association
making it the seventh company to exit so
far leaving 21 of the original 28
backers David Marcus who leads the Libre
project and was previously the president
of PayPal weighed in on Twitter saying
quote I would caution against reading
the fate of Libre in to this update of
course it's not great news in the short
term but in a way it's liberating stay
tuned for more very soon change of this
magnitude is hard you know you're on to
something when so much pressure builds
up and quote the Libre Association the
nonprofit in charge of managing the
cryptocurrency says that it is still
looking to move forward interesting and
funny in a way and kind of sad but
remember two weeks ago we were like I
have faith that Libre is gonna happen
because Visa backs adapter card access
like whoa we're out yeah and like why
like who who approached those companies
and said get out or you know like ya
know it wasn't me but I I mean I have
been not a fan of this from the
beginning from the initial announcement
and and
so to me this feels kind of gratifying
in a very selfish way uh-huh but you
know it doesn't mean that it's you know
like here's the swan song for libri but
the fact is there's a lot of challenges
that have to be overcome yeah I think
the fact that people are going okay you
know what I'm out I'm just gonna watch
these in assignment processors these are
the ones who would be able to transact
right with Libra but the fact that
they're saying I'm out I'm not I'm not
in on this yet I'm gonna watch it that
is I think encouraging because it means
they're going right interesting idea I
still like the idea but the way it's
going isn't gonna fly with me right and
so that opens the door to say okay how
can this change and evolve to be the
system that is trustworthy that is going
to be relied upon so that society in
general who's going to use it can go I'm
there the only way that can happen now
is that Visa MasterCard and all of them
get together and say Facebook you're out
yes I agree if Facebook was completely
out of this mm-hmm it would be a totally
different story and I think even from
the regulatory oversight and the
scrutiny that it's getting right now
you'd have less of it it's simply
because Facebook is a heat score would
this be a whole different story if we
could rewind time and they tried to
launch this before the the analytical
scan yes it would work yeah because that
was when everybody loved Facebook
everybody trusted Facebook and now
Facebook is tainted yes so now anything
from a business perspective though I
think Facebook yeah has made this dumb
decision where they should be following
in the steps of Google what is it
alphabet and yes yeah right it's
alphabet say like because if all of this
had come to fruition and Libra this new
cryptocurrency that's going to be backed
by real commodities if this came about
by some company that we'd never heard of
right that hey Facebook Inc could have
created but if we didn't
make that connection right away maybe
there'd be an instant like oh this is
interesting
and a whole new spin on the the whole
thing but I think the difference is that
it wouldn't there meet but they put
their name on it right and that is
instant distrust from society yes right
and that's what I mean like if Facebook
was not involved in this I think he'd be
having a very different conversation
about it I know I would if it were
launched by Visa or MasterCard that
would be different I don't know I mean
they're all in it for the money right so
are they looking at it and saying oh my
fur I don't blame them can we I mean I
can't blame somebody for being in it for
the money
sure the fact is it's because it's
Facebook that it instantly you lose some
of that trust and faith but if this
thing actually takes off and it's great
you pay is laughing all the way to the
bank
absolutely speaking of obscure payment
processors that nobody's heard of yeah
they are they're in yeah right really
their investment and their time and
their and finances really because really
if you were investing in any
cryptocurrency right now the most stable
cryptocurrency happens to be Libre yes
at zero and according to coin gecko the
market looks like this while everything
is down except surprisingly amidst this
news Libra is holding steady at zero
because they're not trading yet that's
the irony
okay Bitcoin is down to seven thousand
four hundred forty seven dollars and
seventy six cents losing a whopping 1139
bucks over the past two weeks so like
that's pretty significant know that
pardon me over the last one week because
even though we didn't broadcast last
week the numbers were recorded for last
week yes so so you know it is it's it's
volatile yep litecoin also down at forty
nine dollars and fifteen cents losing
ten bucks aetherium at 159 ninety losing
3152 u.s. Manero
also lost a bit at fifty two dollars and
sixty cents us now Scala is again still
going down yes Scala is still on the
descend I I you gotta pull life support
on this thing no I don't know when do we
remove it right we'll see we'll see but
it's still ahead of turtle coin but
turtle coin is more stable so scallop
being one of the micro coins that we're
tracking Scala is at zero point twenty
to ten thousandth of a cent losing point
one ten thousandth of a cent turtle coin
lost only point zero for ten thousandth
of a cent in the past week and is
sitting at zero point two one ten
thousandth of a cent so Fiat wise Scala
is valued a little bit higher but as far
as consistency consistency goes we're
seeing that turtle coin is a little more
stable those are the micro coins they're
easy to invest in they're easy to mine
so if you want to get involved in
Florence he start there yeah there are a
lot of fun what is of great communities
as well but do remember whatever you're
gonna do in the cryptocurrency market
whether you're gonna buy and vast mine
or any way that you become involved in
cryptocurrency remember that it's
volatile it's an ever running market so
24/7 it can change so it doesn't matter
what time of day or night it is
everything could go up or down and can
happen very quickly and very largely yes
would you mind just like on a Raspberry
Pi but powered by like a solar panel so
they're like turtle quite like powered
by this well you're gonna get about nine
hashes per second so nothing but I know
much right but still I mean little GPU
and your computer for 200 bucks and
you'll pay for it within about six
months and you're gonna be mining and
making a hundred bucks every few every
six months you know yeah so I mean
whatever how long was i mining turtle
coin on my PI and then I moved to the
Odroid oh yes yeah yeah
there was yeah millionaire I haven't
checked my bags in a very long time
clue hmm well hey that's that's the
story very very cool
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with ass white Linux
biased and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman yeah Ravi Ferguson and I'm Jeff
Weston
