[Music]
our life according is entrusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with telus stream wire cast and windows
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times a category-5 TV and welcome
to the show everybody it's nice to have
you here Jeff nice to see you again yeah
I've got to be here it's like it's been
forever and then all of a sudden use
here every week I know you can't get rid
of me
never drink oh yeah yeah but now that we
can be socially distant yet in the same
room here we are so this is so welcome
to our socially distance studio speaking
of socially distance sasha has moved
across the country some folks were
asking where sasha been well sasha has
had to move out east so speaking of a
socially distant studio she's actually
putting together a bit of a makeshift
studio in her house oh that's exciting
yeah so that she'll be able to join us
through our community coffee breaks and
when she's able to come on the show
maybe buy a zoom interview or kind of a
discussion as well maybe she could even
participate in one of our category 5
crew conversations oh I think that
wouldn't that be nice yeah I got it I am
a little bit jealous of where she is hot
because she's got picked picturesque
views on the East Coast
oh she's like overlooking the ocean and
she's sending pictures and posting
pictures on our discord server so if
you're not already on our discord make
sure you go to our website category five
dot TV click on interact and join our
discord server she's posting photos of
the iceberg as it drifts
by yeah I'm kind of jealous that's cool
like it just is it's so picturesque it's
so beautiful I mean she's living on the
east coast of Canada where it really has
kind of that vibe of it there's so much
culture there mm-hmm tugs and and you
know as a Ferguson I can really you know
I really appreciate a lot of that
culture and and she's you know they're
there in like a crabbing community and
there's lots of folk music and and just
picturesque vistas of land and and one
of those vistas belongs to her and her
husband Dave I like that yeah but that's
not tech that's why we're here but it's
interesting though I mean through this
whole thing we've realized the tech
really keeps us connected I mean it
if kovat 19 had happened 10 years ago
what a different time this would be like
things just think about that for a
second we're bringing you a live
broadcast from Ontario Canada and we're
able to bring people in from all over
the world
our friends from production studios down
in California and and other folks from
anywhere yeah you're able to communicate
with family and friends through zoom and
and it's not ideal and and I know that
right it's definitely not ideal I have
friends who are stuck outside of our
country right now yeah and their
daughter is here pregnant and about to
give birth and I know like that is so
hard because you want to be here I mean
grandma grandpa want to be here and
that's difficult
weddings are difficult right now
although for our province that's now
about to change as we start looking at
different phases which is good but we
still have to be careful we still have
to be socially distant we need to wear
masks when we can't be socially distant
and that's not easy for a bride and
groom yes funerals are difficult but I
gotta say even funeral parlors have
stepped up to the plate and said okay we
need to step up just like churches like
these services have realized that okay
we need to be accessible during this
difficult time and so they're setting up
cameras in funeral parlors which is
really a difficult thing there's that's
a tough thing yeah because I've we've
always been of the you know here in the
Western world anyways it's very taboo to
take pictures at a funeral and and take
video if you like that's not something
that we would do yeah
well it's a different scenario right now
I said because that we're not acceptable
are acceptable for the time being for
that reason because like family and
friends need to be there yep it's true
yeah and it's gonna be interesting to
see when all of this is done and kind of
the dust settles how our world adapts to
the changes that have been put in place
right now for tech like the amount of
people that are now working from home
and I salute that before they would say
hey can I work from home at the boss
going we don't allow that there's no way
to do it yeah Kove it happens and
suddenly companies are going we're gonna
find a way to make this happen and now
companies are realizing that maybe
there's an economical advantage yeah
having folks work from home yep and now
there's even a conversation of a shorter
work day here in Canada or work week
here in Canada they're talking about
going to four-day work week really you
know just for thing hasn't heard that
yeah it's it's been a cop of a topic of
conversation for many years but it's
really picked up because people are
going look short in the workweek and
that way people have more time outside
of the office you can get you know
longer days but yeah you know you still
get the same amount of hours but it's a
few days in the week you get more
productivity getting get out and that
way there's less 16 that's an
interesting you mentioned productivity
and and I've thought about that how like
I I own this studio for example and and
so to be able to work not from home but
for me to be able to work from the
studio
I can be more productive that's right
yeah there's less distractions there's
less I would even go so far as to say
fear you know in a lot of cases and then
maybe you're relating to that
maybe you're not but but there is that
when when you've got an office where
people are coming and going and bringing
product and things like that so but one
of the other interesting things is the
the shortages that we've seen are a
little unexpected
so how things like here's an interesting
one
Plexiglas so you think about all the
stores that are putting up plexiglass
dividers which absolutely makes sense as
a safety precaution and and maybe not so
much even for the customers but
definitely for the staff I mean my
stepmother works at a liquor store okay
and so she's interacting with hundreds
of people per day they line up you know
each other they do and and so to protect
her who I would say is you know at her
age would be a vulnerable person and and
so I like that there's Plexiglas
dividing her from those hundreds of
people plain and simple and whether or
not it's a risk here in Canada like
that's neither here nor there it's like
there are certain things that need to be
in place just to play it safe I'm more
of the mindset to just play it safe even
though maybe I'm not vulnerable or maybe
you know like that's that's neither here
nor there to me I'd rather just hey
let's err on the side of caution yeah
that's my thing
but with the shortage of Plexiglas
because of this raspberry pie cases
become short supply because there's not
enough Plexiglas for the manufacturers
to create these plexi cases well now
that we've got a surplus of toilet paper
some households do but I mean you know
you talk about Plexiglas but as it
relates to raspberry pie but it is
interesting one of the things that I
have noticed since you know you lack the
ability I say you as in people in
general but for me I can't get into a
lot of tech stores right now like we've
got a you know you know you've got your
big box stores
far as for tech where you walk in you go
buy a computer off the shelf but if you
go into any of your your computer stores
where you need to customize a computer I
can't get in any of them right now
because they don't want people browsing
into the shelves and touching so you
have to go to the door and purchase and
and it for me or is the same well yeah
but I need to build a computer right now
and with on its where it's at look like
Newegg is where it's at well that's the
thing so I can get some of the parts but
not all of them because there's the
shipping delays going across borders and
stuff but it's the people interaction
that I'm realizing I think I know what I
want for building a computer but I want
to walk in and go these are the
components I'm thinking of is this the
way to go about it or do I need
something else and have somebody go oh
hold on that's not you got to be aware
of this yeah and then this and I go oh
that makes sense
I can't do that now so now I'm gunshot
you know to write those kinds of threads
in all right is there a difficult yeah
cuz it's like if I buy this and I buy
this and I buy this is it gonna work
yeah and so I'm afraid to click the
mouse thing commit even though like if
it's with Amazon I could still kick kick
it back and go I bought the wrong thing
but it's like I missed that interaction
so that makes it tough as well and and
like thinking about that how like going
into stores where you have to browse
bookstores yes I we ran into this
scenario where my wife and kids are out
of books
my wife is an avid reader our library in
town opens up right but it's been closed
for through the entire pendant yes yeah
so that's not an e-reader person is she
no see I like my readers so now see see
what what you're saying is that
technology now makes a lot of sense
because you can get into Kindle or Kobo
and just click on the book that you want
read the first few pages and see if you
want it or not and then buy it that's
right and read it on your waterproof
kindle yes like that is all of a sudden
that makes sense I bought an e-reader
for my birthday last year I'm so glad
I've got it yeah yeah do you love it I
love it I am very much a tactile person
and you know this for from my video game
I like the video games that I enjoy I'm
very nostalgic and books physical books
the smell of books the feel the tactile
nature of books is very important yeah
but I can really understand the need for
ear eaters right now it just makes sense
absolutely but so I took my wife to a
used bookstore and this is the scenario
where like you're in a bookstore where
you're reading jackets unused books and
and they were open this was wonderful
but they had to limit how many people
were there we had to wear face masks and
and we had to socially distance
ourselves as best as we could in a small
you know how used bookstores are right
so but we walked out with a stack of
books so she said so it's fantastic but
so it's just a different time and I
think you know we all have to be patient
we all have to be understanding and and
remember that the staff are going
through the same thing and probably
worse yes like the staffers probably
more stressed out because they're
dealing with the people who are given a
hard time over having to wear a mask and
I say this because hearing can't well in
Ontario anyways there's now a mandate by
law that says that we have to wear a
mask when we walk into a store yeah here
in Barrie it's it's necessary so I
actually as of Friday I have to put a
sign in our window that says you're not
allowed to enter without a mask whether
you agree with that or not again I refer
back to my comment I'd rather err on the
side of caution yes it's a very small
inconvenience well exactly
somebody said like if they're right
I've saved lives if they're wrong I've
been mildly inconvenienced and that's
kind of I think that's of it but it's a
fair perspective enough that that I can
say okay you know what
whether I agree or not oh I'll wear a
mask when I walk into the store yeah
plain and simple I'm not gonna put up a
fuss now so it's not worth it yeah
ah I don't know how we got on that Jeff
it's just I think it's important to
acknowledge the situation that we're all
in and and today this week as we produce
this show it's a perfect example of this
like we actually cancelled the live
broadcast and and Jeff and I decided
that we would still get together and
produce a show yeah but not live because
we couldn't do it because of all the
things that went on in our world this
week that in our world I don't mean our
world as in effect of you as well here
in our town and in my day job and in the
things that have gone on this week made
it impossible right so here well and
with that I mean given the the delays
that we have through shipping because of
the border crossing and making sure that
stuff's been quarantine and all kind
stuff it's even limited as far as show
topics access that you have to any sort
of products like if you wanted in
secreto yeah it's tough my Pyne time is
who knows where yeah I was in
communication with their shipping
department and trying to figure out
where is my pint I'm and they said well
we don't actually know because the
tracking number expires
after two months so two months plus into
waiting for my Pyne time to arrive I can
no longer track it yeah and this is like
so now we're two months plus three weeks
so I know our anniversary is coming up
like my wife and I coming out it's so
not you know member I was kind of in and
because well you keep track of that Jeff
that's we know I don't man I hug him if
it wasn't such a distance to do but
because of because of the long shipping
times I actually purchased our
anniversary gift for her weeks ago just
to make sure that it arrived by the fall
because how many of you actually sort
Amazon buy Prime now oh that's alright
won't even order anything if it's not
prime so hey if you're selling stuff on
am
keep that yes well I've got a buddy who
does because Amazon has the delivery
hubs into in the various things it's a
song guys yeah just like an hour away
from us well the the how it takes two
days the the company that does the
shipping here in Bari like my buddy
who's delivers he's like it's busier
right now oh sure
because of all the online purchases
people making because they're sitting at
home then Black Friday then Boxing Day
like none of them have compared to the
cove in purchasing will it absolutely
makes sense I don't want to go into a
store I'll stand in line for three hours
and then finally get in and feel
pressured to hurry up yes because other
people are waiting to get into the store
it's tough yeah and and so I I'm guilty
of that it's like it's been a real
blessing to be able to get on to Amazon
and use Prime to get the cereal that the
kids eat yeah exactly and now they've
got this subscribe feature which is
brilliant but yet like tragic for every
other person selling product in the
world but by subscribing you save 15% on
your progress yep and then it delivers
on what like a monthly rotation or and
you said it oh one to six months so
things like deodorant oh I don't have to
go to the store anymore I just it just
shows them he's you can't smell it I'm
not getting any clothes I smell like
flowers it's I'll take you that's the
world where we've entered that is and
because of all these things this is why
we're having these you know crew
conversations like last week I was
finally able to come in it's like okay
how do we do the show now we're gonna
talk about that for a minute because I
feel like Jeff is hungry but I am hungry
but before we do that out and kudos to
our supporters now of course we had a
recent Kickstarter campaign that got us
into this studio and we're still
figuring it out yeah this is only our
second week where it's not just me yeah
right so this week we're trying
something different we're just trying a
center cam last week was pretty brutal
with three cameras I'm putting adoption
time was that for you well it took four
days
to produce and and so you know like this
is my part-time gig yeah so that that's
tough so so this week we're doing the
center shot and we're working with that
I've got ISO recording it's 4k so I can
work with it but it is what it is so
we're learning how this space functions
we're getting like we had a designer in
here on Monday we've got a contractor
here on Friday for the first time he has
seen the place
but he hasn't done any work in here yet
so that's that's coming on Friday too so
things are gonna be changing around here
and getting a little bit more
professional but then that's all but I
want to say thanks to those who have
supported the move to this studio and
our ongoing expenses as well so those of
you who choose to support us on patreon
hey that helps so much I'm like getting
caught up with like our internet stuff
we moved in here during like the peak of
kovat 19 shut down yeah so like our
internet service provider came in and
installed everything and didn't give me
anything so they installed it but they
didn't give me anything I don't know my
account number I don't know how to pay
well I don't have an invoice they don't
have my shipping address to send me an
invoice there's nothing like this is how
weird this world is right now so like
yeah they installed it we had internet
but I couldn't I didn't know how to pay
Wow at all I had no phone number to call
nothing absolutely nothing so finally
they called my cell phone
and so I chatted with Emma and they're
like yeah we all had like they were
totally yeah we understand like this is
this is the new now three months in we
haven't paid an Internet bill and
they're like here's how you pay and they
actually walk me through setting up an
account and they created the account and
they were good about it but it's like
that's mental yeah like so like even
they are feeling it but they got us up
and running good on them yeah so we're
like I'm here trying to get things
figured out yeah
it's tough but we're figuring it out but
but those monthly expenses they build up
if you don't pay them for three months
yeah they also you know it's incurred on
a monthly basis and so patreon really
really helps with that so I want to say
thanks to our patrons because you know
you are under mentioned and they're you
know I certainly you know the you get
some perks for being a patron at
patreon.com slash category five there's
like behind the scenes and everything
else and especially now as the
contractor is going to be coming in hey
if you're a fan of the show you want to
become a patron because you're gonna get
to see how everything comes together
that's yeah but I also want to give
shout out to the people who specifically
funded the move yes to get in here so
that when the ISP finally calls my cell
phone and says hey here's how you pay
you owe us for three yeah the funds are
there and those folks really took a huge
burden off my shoulders Jeff like you
know like this could have gone all
source of awry oh sure
well and they they knocked it out of the
park I mean we had a goal and I think we
were over double and in three hours yeah
I was it was amazing so to our
Kickstarter backers thank you I can't
mention you all by name but I will say
thank you to bp9 Scott Barclays Ron
Morissette Jerry Kowalski Jonathan
Garvey jens ness and a mara droid nomen
v bill marshall NiCad and again everyone
who supported the show through the move
and who continues to support us
throughout our broadcast as well it just
means so much and we are viewer
supported we're a business but and I
said this on the Kickstarter campaign
yeah we're a business but we give away
our product for free right exactly how
do you monetize that I mean there's the
obvious stuff like hey there are ads on
YouTube and we show you products and
hopefully you buy them through our
Amazon affiliate links and things like
that but really it comes down to viewers
who say
hey I really enjoy the show and I want
to support it and I want to donate to it
and that that's where like that's how
we're able to grow that's how we're able
to know patreon is great because it sets
us up every month with a like a target
we can kind of see how much money we're
gonna have at the end of the month or so
we know yeah so we know we can cover the
bills so thank you so much everybody now
because of that Kickstarter I do believe
there are two things that we need to
fulfill and and we've got a schedule you
aren't going down buddy we need to
schedule the day that I get called yes
with paintballs and there are folks who
are gonna be receiving one-on-one videos
with from me there are folks who are
gonna be able to chat one-on-one with
Sacha Rickman that's exciting yeah so
there's a lot of stuff there's a lot of
perks to being a part of our supporting
community I'm not looking forward to
paintball day oh man I am that's that's
500 paintballs and like just if if it's
true the majority rules Jeff you are
overruled because you are one person not
looking forward to that day and every
single person in our community is
looking forward to shooting you with 500
paintballs yeah and hooking you up to a
TENS machine yes and putting you through
labor yeah I was really looking forward
to that oh yes I get messages from her
that are just yeah pretty much
it's just a picture of her going she's
already told me that for this she's
coming with baking and she's just gonna
sit back and relax and enjoy it oh she's
like I've done it three times this is
your one time yeah so so I need to ask
her what was your longest labor Gen two
minutes so we're gonna take the longest
labor and double oh I think it was like
12 hours all right so we had last week
so 12 hours of pain for you Jeff at
least that 24 Jen what do you think I'm
fun busy that day who's in charge we had
our first ever category 5 crew
verse Asian yes we and this week it's
time for our first ever category five
crew conversations cupcake so who do you
think did the best with our crew
conversations let me just remind you if
you're just joining us Jeff you covered
topics like Chromebooks for school yes
for the education sector your your
children yes you covered raspberry pie
microcomputers as minecraft servers yes
I on the other hand the clear winner
covered using 3d printers to save money
because the price of 3d printers has
come down so far I posed the question
could I actually save money to to spend
it on a 3d printer and I think the
answer is yes I also talked about using
a pan tilt head from a DMX light which
is a like a little think of a DJ light
that you know moves around and and and
the DJ can control that with a DMX
controller which is like pretty typical
and we have one here and putting a
Raspberry Pi HQ camera in the body of
that and using the 3d printer to reprint
the face to make it work so you can
still use the lights but you've got the
camera when we went through this oh no
way that I'm coming out ahead because
those are flippin cool ideas flippin
cool you heard it really cool Wow I
covered some crazy awesome stuff but you
had your your mum was watching
Oh what did I pull out the win tell me
honestly did you vote for your own
videos no no I did not vote for my own
videos I also did not vote for my own
videos Jeff came out on top 25 percent
now I think your your topic of using a
Raspberry Pi as a minecraft server
really tipped you over the edge because
people seem to really love that we got
some comments yes people typing was the
most voted for video content or and they
loved it like people were talking about
how oh this is something that I've been
thinking about thank you for doing this
thank you for talking about this yeah I
worked on it some more and I do have an
update based on our conversation oh can
you tell us a little bit about that yeah
I I've already kind of announced who
gets the cupcake but yeah so I did get
the server up and running and for a
single user to log in it was not bad
okay as soon as my kids joined not so
good oh yeah I we had 3 computers so I
got the the logins activated and it just
hmm so I would not use the 3 B+ okay
here's now I've got it on a no droid I'm
going the next step up Oh droid x u 4x u
4 with 2 gigs of ram with 2 with the MMC
er using SD I'm using emmc
I've got a 64 gig emmc on there you know
which is way more than I need for the
server you say that but then your kids
become master builder well exactly and
that's why I went with a bigger one I
debated on the 128 but I'm like I think
that's a bit overkill right now for
minecraft server but I so the Raspberry
Pi 3 B+ was too slow going beyond
multiple a single user and I think even
if it was speedy enough to run multiple
users by the time they start creating
and building and all that it would slow
right down so now I'm trying it on the
Xtreme I guess that world gen yeah
Raspberry Pi and we'll see how that goes
we don't have an update for us yet no oh
darn it Jeff
what is YZ like an old water so much I
got
dude so I've got to install I just
haven't done the the test yet you're
gonna fill us in on this yes of course
goodness and and if if the xu4 is a
little bit slow then I will go with the
Raspberry Pi okay here is what is nice
about going with the Raspberry Pi for
you've already created it for the
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ correct so all you
have to do is take the SD card out of
the three B+ pop it in a Raspberry Pi
four that's right and turn it on
that's right because it's already I
figured is beautiful yes that's what
Raspberry Pi has going for it is that it
is forward compatible it's not backward
compatible if it like you have to a well
not backward compatible no that's not
right
what I mean is that an old distro from a
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ will not work on a new
Raspberry Pi 4 because they changed the
bootloader
yes however as long as you do like an
well I presume it's a new version of
Raspberry Pi os yes yeah it was the most
rigid so it's gonna work on a Raspberry
Pi 4 or a Raspberry Pi 0 whatever but
the performance will be impacted if you
have a distro that's been built on a
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ that's not compatible
with a Raspberry Pi for you can do a
disk upgrade exactly and that will
actually make it compatible with the
raspberry PI's all I do yeah apt update
and then enter and then apt upgrade and
then enter and then apt dist - upgrade
and that's all you need to do on a
Raspberry Pi 3 or 0 no and anything in
between in order to make it compatible
with a Raspberry Pi 4 so you can take
that SD card and move it into another
into a faster system you cannot take
that SD card out of the Raspberry Pi 3
and plug it into an X you for from ogre
ID because they are not compatible right
yeah but the Odroid has twice as much
RAM mm-hmm way more storage and telling
them see is so much faster than SD cards
especially on the pre PI 4 yeah because
those were
slow SD card readers and the reason I
went with if I what if I had a Raspberry
Pi for ya one of you I would just would
have gone from the three to the four but
because I have not purchased a Raspberry
Pi four yet the xu4 is what I had and so
that's why I'm giving it a run on that
wonderful as I was doing it I think I've
thought about our conversation last week
you like Oh what about they dry and what
about the you know and so I'm like here
here's the progression on we're so we
can you know I'll be able to report back
and say this was the difference now I I
should have fought to do like benchmarks
and stuff between the two but yeah but
you know you can tell when you're
playing Minecraft if world gen is bad
yes yeah so Jeff on that now enjoy your
gourmet cupcake oh I will from our local
bakery I will and while Jeff does that
I'm actually gonna mosey on over to the
bridge and I want to show you my new
clock interesting see ya two seconds
later
[Applause]
all right so while you enjoy that I'm
just gonna work my way over to the
bridge and from here what I wanted to
show you is simply a clock that I've
been working on I know that sounds crazy
but one of the things that I've been
trying to achieve with this space which
is our basically our producers room is
to make it as functional as possible but
also try to give it some eye candy as
well I've been using just a standard
analog clock on the wall because it has
tick tick tick tick and I can count the
seconds but I wanted to take it one more
like a step further because quite often
when we're producing video especially
live we have to meet markers so there's
a countdown usually I have a walkie
talkie if I'm producing somebody in the
other room and I'll be communicating
back and forth in order to let them know
the countdown so you've seen it on TV
I'm sure so you know 5 seconds 3 mark
you know so we're punching in that way
but it's not always ideal to use just a
standard clock so I set out to build
something a little bit different and
it's powered by today anyways a
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ I am not at all
satisfied with the performance of that
which you're about to see
however it's given me a development
platform to play around with now I may
have to install it on something that can
handle better graphics well why do you
need graphics for a clock Robbie because
I want to so this is what I'm working on
I based this on the Aries jQuery
dashboard so you may be familiar with
that but what I've done is I've actually
created a functional clock out of this
system so so I've taken that it's
basically a template and then I've
created a jQuery clock counter countdown
disk check that uses Ajax to PHP to be
able to check my network to see if
there's any hard drive failures or
or hard drives that are full in our
array and I'll show you also it even
shows when we're live on the air so
that's pretty cool right now it's not
connected so we've got Studio II up here
these are the only things that are not
functional these are just eye candy
right now from the original theme I've
left them in just to make it so that
there's some filled space there no point
in removing them and having having it
not look symmetrical so so with this we
can ignore those things here we have the
actual functional clock and I've got
Greek for time there according to Google
Translate so we've got 946 is the time
and we've got a seconds counter here ten
eleven twelve so you can see how janky
the video is that's because of the
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ not being it's the
graphics processing not being able to
keep up with the with the visual effects
that I've created
it runs stellar on my Linux desktop so
that's the actual time nothing fancy
there except I wanted to separate out
the seconds rather than having them in
line like you'd normally see like 9 : 46
: 38 I wanted to move that 38 up here
and it's counting in real-time using
jQuery so every second there's a timer
that updates the time then taking it one
step further
quite often in production we count
backwards so when we're looking at 10
o'clock the time we're counting down to
it so we're calling 60 seconds 30
seconds 10 seconds 5 and then everything
goes black and boom we're alive so
that's how it works so what we have is
now and now we've see that it's 947 we
can really easily calculate that we've
got 43 seconds left but if we look down
here we actually have a countdown that
says time will be 948 in 35 34 33 you
can see that jQuery timer is a little
bit off that's also the raspberry pi
that's not that's not the system itself
it's that the Raspberry Pi unfortunately
can't keep up with it I was really
thinking this was going to work on on a
single board computer I tried it on in
this
use tinker board and it was it was so
unable to handle the graphics that it
actually wouldn't even load them the
Raspberry Pi 3 B Plus at least loads it
but not well enough so gonna try a
couple of different s pcs reason I'm
trying the Raspberry Pi 3 B+ right now
is simply it has Wi-Fi which makes it a
little easier to set up because I don't
have I haven't unpacked my Ethernet
cables yet over here oh and this is not
functional either this is just fake part
of the template well I should point out
up here so as I'm recording this as we
mentioned we're not actually
broadcasting live today this is all
we've produced this behind like after
the fact so this shows the video feed is
off the air but as soon as we go live
this will actually shift to say on air
so that also serves a double purpose if
we're here producing and and
broadcasting a live show will notice
that presumably I mean if we look up
we'll see that we're off the air
something's going on even though we
think we're on the air this will
actually show that then this is also
functional so this shows disk usage my
disk usage is not actually that bad
although it is close what this is
looking to do is it's going to connect
to Samba shares on my server and it does
a disk check every 15 seconds to see how
much disk usage there is and this will
move automatically the only one right
now that's currently connected because I
have not created those Samba connections
is the SD card so you can see I'm using
about what looks like about 10 percent 8
percent of my SD card so these will move
in real time the animation is so much
better on a computer so I've got this
little box here that I'm thinking maybe
I'll turn that into my clock but part of
the idea is I want to create a set up
here that's very low power consumption
yet has some eye candy and is also
functional so this serves many purposes
from the time to the countdown to the
disk usage warnings and even showing us
whether we're on air or off air and it
will even tell us if there's a problem
with the API if the API is not
this will go red and it will warn us of
that right here you see an empty box and
that's because I have not yet plugged a
microphone into the Raspberry Pi this is
a spectrum and now analyzer so that will
actually show the the spectrum in real
time of audio that's flowing through the
Raspberry Pi so I'm thinking maybe we'll
pull that off of our mixing console so
that we can actually see the audio
levels on the on the dashboard so that's
pretty cool so that's my new clock it's
much more than a clock it's a functional
dashboard and gonna be growing over the
next little while as I develop it it's
not really ready for mainstream use
right yet however if you'd like to check
it out you'll see a repository called
studio on github.com slash cat 5 TV my
github page and the source code for this
and everything is there and you can
check it out if you have a PR for me to
make it even funnier I'd love to see it
and I'm going to be working on figuring
out which platform which hardware
platform is going to work the best I
don't really want to put it on a PI for
I figure it probably will run better
there but that's a very expensive clock
very expensive clocks oh so maybe though
because there's dual video output on a
Raspberry Pi 4 I could offset that cost
by running my nem server on the 4th
screen so that gives me some thought so
maybe I'm gonna tinker with that what
are your thoughts what system should I
run it on what one do you think is gonna
perform best as far as the graphics go
the processor is doing just fine
it's able to do all this but it's the
graphical end of it that the Raspberry
Pi 3 B+ just is terrible at so I'm
curious what what single board computer
is going to be the best one for this use
case so check it out github.com slash
cat 5 TV slash studio and the folder
that you're looking for for this
particular application is screens
/ - board and you'll also see screens /
the Orval which is actually a screen
from
the set of the Orval provided by Tom
costantino so that repository is
basically anything that we do that I do
for the studio like API connections and
things like that that's where I stick
them so if you want to check out how we
do things that's a pretty cool spot
github.com slash cat5 TV slash studio
we've got to take a quick break folks
stick around
and we're back
was that good I was good oh man I'm so
jealous we're just going to find a
competition that you can win I actually
after I know I've won this is where I
get cocky for those who are wondering I
did not buy a second cupcake for me to
eat after the show or anything that was
that was literally the only one so I
would've enjoyed that you jerk I
he did they he actually offered to split
it but I'm like no that's not socially
distant Jeff and besides you've already
bitten into it
Wow so so we show we shoot this show
every Wednesday yep and being the week
that we've had what a Wednesday oh it
has been yeah unbelievable a few weeks
back Becca reported in the news room
about how Samsung had bricked oh I know
millions of their blu-ray players yeah
unreal they pushed out an update that
wrecked all of their blu-ray players any
blu-ray player that was connected to the
web which you buy what do you does
anyone buy a blu-ray player to play
blu-rays tell me honestly
no we they're smart they have YouTube
they have Netflix they got Amazon Prime
video whatever else built-in and and so
that's and and the convenience of yes it
can play blu-ray and DVD and even music
CDs I do do you I do I'm very nostalgic
you know that I don't remember the last
time I bought a CD I liberal downloads
yeah I just can't do it I can't do it
I'll do Digital rentals of videos but
music I need a physical CD but that said
they bricked all of their blu-ray
players crazy but it went to show that a
big company can make a little mistake
that can cause a lot of damage and you
don't want to brick a bunch of people's
media players
in the middle of a pandemic so at least
I'll give them kudos Samsung has stepped
up to the plate and said this was our
error we will pay to fix it yep yep
if you contact your Samsung rep they
will actually give you a FedEx shipping
label and they will fix it and they will
return it to you entirely at their
expense even if it's out of warranty Wow
right so they've done they've done good
I can't imagine they haven't lost all
profit from that hundred and twenty
dollar blu-ray player that you've ever
that you purchased from Walmart right
yeah but they they've done good that's
how a company should react when they
screw up I feel like this is a lead up
to a company who screwed up so back to
our Wednesday anybody want to look up
Wednesday what is today the as we're
shooting this uh it is the 15th of July
the 15th of July - I feel like this was
the kovat day for tech like it just went
nuts this day was brutal so I got to
work Jeff and my colleague who is
working in support right now because
we've got two people who are stranded
because of closed airports due to Cove
at 19 and one person who is on vacation
who can't actually travel but is still
taking it easy for the next couple of
days so my technician is uber stressed
out on what's going on he says well
we've got a big customer who is having
trouble with their email and I can't
figure it out I just can't get to the
bottom of it and we talked about it for
about 15 minutes and tried to okay we'll
try this try that blah blah blah no
solution but and then I went and sat at
my desk right and then the phone started
ringing and the first call that I took
was somebody whose outlook was crashing
and so that's pretty that can happen
especially they've got roaming profiles
the guy has disconnected his laptop from
the network and walked away before
closing outlook and disc basically
disconnected his right PST file so now
he's
botched his email profile right that
happens so i remote it in I've got the
manager of the company on the phone and
and I'm remoted in and and I've
recreated his profile in Outlook and and
I am ready to resync all of his the
email open outlook and it crashes really
we've been after even after update and
creating a new profile so then it's okay
well on to step two go into add remove
programs and do a repair operation so
we'll do a quick one first and that that
works but still open it and crashes okay
so okay well we'll do the full online
repair for Microsoft Office and that
should do it because that basically rips
it out and reinstalls it right and so I
ran that and that took forever and it
still crashes really so I said to him I
said look my lead tech is on vacation
this week and so he's gonna be back on
Monday let me chat with him I want to
get his thoughts on this I don't want to
waste too much of your time I'm on the
clock I'm billing for this time and and
we'll we'll circle back on Monday after
I've had a chat with him yep because
that's not my department
I'm cybersecurity specialist so so
really like I know what I'm doing but I
don't want to waste your time and I
don't want to run up a bill if I'm not
having success right that makes sense
it's fair I'm honest so we let him go
off the phone and I moved on with my day
and a call came in Outlook is crashing
different quiet different client so this
is now three clients outlook issues and
I'm not talking little clients I'm
talking first client is two hundred
computers I'm talking second client is
maybe 180 third client is smaller forty
staff still that's big yeah I'm having
issues many of them are okay yeah
this the ones who opened outlook this
morning they're not having any problems
the ones who opened it this afternoon it
crashes immediately so I started we
started this discussion talking about
Samsung and how they pushed out an
update and it's it's a mind-bending open
mind opener that a company like Samsung
could push out an update that would
destroy all of their DVD players and
brew great players but now as it turns
out through investigating and so
obviously at this point I'm like because
something is weird here so I start
looking at forums and I start looking at
various sites and and doing some
searches this is before it started
trending folks Microsoft pushed out an
update for Microsoft Office basically
bricked Microsoft Outlook on the fly a
mid date
okay mm-hmm why so people who so here we
are in the middle of a business day yeah
a Wednesday in a week where people have
been told by our governments okay be
socially distant but you can reopen your
office now yeah so now they're 40 staff
they're 180 staff they're 200 plus staff
are trying to access their email and
what's happening outlook immediately
crashes so it turns out it was Microsoft
pushed out an update basically bricking
Microsoft Outlook I'm so glad I don't
use Microsoft Outlook our Linux using
community people are saying who uses
Microsoft Outlook not me right yeah so
has it been resolved well the verge is
reporting and Marsh man has been so kind
as to send this to me over discord the
Verge's reporting that Microsoft has
rolled out an Outlook desktop crash fix
Microsoft Outlook email apps for Windows
started crashing at launch for a number
of users everybody
in the around the world today like this
so this became a trending topic on
Twitter yes and so this is a talk about
Twitter global issue we will oh this was
a global issue this doesn't matter it
like office 365 users using pop using
Zimbra using whatever you're using if
you've got your an exchange server but
it was affecting everyone so this was
like this was the software on a computer
like if you logged into the web portal
you could still access it oh yeah OWA
was still up yeah okay and all those
things were up it was people who have it
on their computer so here's the problem
Jeff what happens when outlook starts
crashing people think it's archived here
and who do they call tech support tech
support and tech support pushes the
magic button that starts billing them
question did you start with did you turn
it off and on again
no oh because microsoft outlook profile
corruption is a common thing
yeah that's show you recreate the
profile you start over and you resync
the email you repair install if outlook
is still non-functional where and so on
but I went through those steps and it
didn't help so as it turns out this
update so what I ended up doing is I
ended up going in and manually
uninstalling the update that came in
okay and instead installed an update
from June so basically reverted to the
previous updated version of Microsoft
Outlook right so that's that's how I was
able to fix these customers computers so
my day was toast my coworker his day was
toast
we were just feeling call after call
after call and I said on Twitter who is
responsible for the lawsuit oh is going
that is going like I'm talking like a
grand scale lawsuit where why are my
customers this is where it's hard to be
honest folks why are my customers having
to pay my hourly rate yep to fix
Microsoft screwing up their computers
yep a samsung took the fall
samsung gay
everybody free repair service they're
paying the shipping both ways and
they're getting it fixed what the heck
is Microsoft doing in this situation
nothing they won't even say much about
it
oh we fix down that'll be it that's all
they're saying the verge says hey that
problem with Microsoft Outlook that took
everybody's Outlook offline earlier
today they fixed it hooray they've
issued a patch what about all the
customers who had to pay me and their
technicians not my customers other cuz
yeah who had to have their IT staff re
do the updates on two hundred computers
as well
think about that Samsung's got it right
Microsoft is dead to me that's just for
a while I'm sorry to rant but that end
and that just makes me upset I am an
honest technician I'm an honest person
and I need to be paid for my time right
exactly and the stuff that you would
plan to do you couldn't do you do
because you're dealing with this yeah
yeah so now there's this backlog of
everything that's unfortunate yeah what
do you guys think I mean a post below
let us know if you're watching this
online I'd love to hear what you think
thank you to marsh man for sending us
that article from the verge and in the
meantime if you are impacted by this
note that a subsequent update fixes the
broken update which is the update
process for Microsoft Windows it's funny
that we're talking about updates I have
had an update on my computer that's
tried to install now for probably the
last month yeah and my windows like cuz
I have a dual boot Windows Linux yeah
and every time I log into Windows it's
like oh there's an update can we can we
run it
I keep trying like your windows asks for
permission it does that's bad so I keep
trying so I give it pretty you get that
and it goes Windows perfect don't don't
fix what ain't broke exactly
ah we're just ignoring them like I'm
just gonna leave ya exactly use Linux Oh
you mentioned Twitter yes many good so
this this is as this is all going on
with Microsoft many Twitter accounts
were compromised today being that we're
shooting on a Wednesday is this what's
today the single largest account
compromise ation on on Twitter in the in
a day I don't real I don't know the
stats on that Jan I don't recall any
other day like this we're weird or blew
up so the question becomes which staff
member at Twitter got canned oh and they
left their account open because here's
the thing today so we're shooting on
Wednesday yes the 15th you said of July
15 I've lost all track I've given up on
time and in this one day Apple their
Twitter account you on musk Bloomberg
what cash app yeah Jeff Bezos maybe
you've heard of them I think is that the
guy that runs that big company ah yeah I
can't remember the amazon amaz oh yeah
and I'll write heard of them
Bill Gates okay says it what Bill Gates
uber Tron
Justin Sun Bitcoin Bitcoin got hacked oh
wow that would hurts not Bitcoin but
bitcoins Twitter account coinbase
coinbase
and the list goes on and on and then
gets into political figures such as Joe
Biden and are you ready for this
Barack Obama ah Obama gotten hacked so
yes some of you may be noticing a trend
however here's the thing that the
particular hack posted on all of these
accounts pretty much simultaneously like
within minutes of one another really a
pretty traditional crypto currency
scam so basically so Elon Musk's Twitter
account said sent I'm feeling generous
so for the next 30 minutes send me one
thousand dollars worth of Bitcoin and I
will send you back two thousand dollars
worth of Bitcoin Bill Gates's Twitter
account tweeted send me one thousand
dollars worth of Bitcoin and I will
tweet you and I will send you back one
two thousand dollars worth of Bitcoin
but here's the thing Jeff bitcoins
Twitter said yes send me one thousand
dollars worth of Bitcoin and I will send
you two thousand dollars of Bitcoin so
do you see how we need to think about
things before we automatically trust
them well I was this was my thing like
if I saw that my first thought would be
this isn't legit yes however Elon we
know banks cryptocurrency yes Bitcoin we
know has access to insurmountable amount
of Bitcoin yeah so why not and then
there are others who are saying oh click
this link we're going to contribute to
medical science through Bitcoin and so
on and so forth so there this was a
massive attack yeah a massive attack we
don't currently at least as of the time
that we're shooting this know who is
responsible or or some would say why the
question becomes why well clearly they
want Bitcoin would anyone fall for Jeff
would anyone well unfortunately yes the
interesting thing about Bitcoin is you
can not track the transactions however
you can see that the transactions
occurred that's right and so when Bill
Gates tweet it send me one thousand
you two thousand dollars worth of
Bitcoin back
in the first five minutes $50,000 worth
of Bitcoin were sent to that Bitcoin
address in five minutes very difficult
math here $10,000 per minute and you're
not getting it back like you know
remember that you can't recover it it
can't be traced you can't even prove it
because bitcoin is secure it's part of
the cryptocurrency blockchain oh that
just hurts to hear yeah so let's have a
moment of silence for those who fell for
this scam but this really really quick
let's move on you're a bunch of idiots
you fell for it again you fool ah we've
told you we've warned you none of our
viewers fell for Jeff I you know what if
you did please comment and let us know
and and why sure hope why would you
click that why oh dear this is you know
what can you just indulge me can we get
a double facepalm I can't help but smile
Jeff I can't help but smirk ah and that
was just Bill Gates okay what about the
other accounts do we have stats on that
editor there are stats I mean you can
look at the Bitcoin addresses that they
posted now last I checked Twitter was
privy to the fact that this was
occurring right and they said they were
investigating and in fact they were
locking down the ability for some
accounts to tweet ok so they're on top
of it probably by the time this goes
live we're gonna know more but at the
point of where we are right now sitting
in our studio recording it's happening
in real time right now so here's the
question that is running through my head
is this a security breach on Twitter or
is this a security breach on
the devices that run those Twitter
accounts because the fact that they were
all fairly simultaneous within minutes
of one another
makes me wonder was it an an attack in
in the Twitter infrastructure is that a
lie I joke what staff member at Twitter
got fired yeah right I mean it wasn't
then it becomes a matter of will the
dark web
well yeah but what's out there that
what's for sale all of these accounts at
the same time it means that either there
was a some sort of smart entity that was
logged into all of these at the same
time went okay go or was it a you know
your typical email thing you click the
link and suddenly you're infected was it
something like that where it just kind
of did all these yeah is there
connection but Arif ID folks fell for
phishing scams spear phishing scams are
on the rise right now and the so fact is
that during kovat nineteen I mean hey
you might be work from home but so are
the hackers is there the possibility
again this is just kind of starting to
think outside the box but could there be
a relation to like a unrelated service
where there's some sort of phishing
program that's collecting information
where all of them are using it like I
know we covered in the news couple weeks
ago about discord that there's BOTS on
the rise or could it be like I'm just
trying to think of something because I
mean a lot of those are tech based we
can speculate Jeff we don't know at
least at the time of filming yeah we
don't know yeah there's absolutely a
possibility of like I think spearfishing
is a very real possibility
somebody compromising phones and who
knows
what would - if a fix this I don't know
but here's what our crypto correspondent
Robert Koenig says that's privately to
us yes and this may be what your what's
kind of triggering this thought process
for you he posted this in our staff
channel on our discord and says I
haven't read it yet well here here you
go Jeff because this is gonna be deja vu
when you go home later and you read this
okay
Robert Koenig is our crypto
correspondent from the newsroom and he
says from from the cryptic corner says
those scams are really clever okay
absolutely they even know how to place
ads on YouTube and that's true and scary
because yeah I've seen it where how
malicious ads trick people into clicking
and providing their details
Wow okay so here's the thing that Robert
stresses he says on github on YouTube
Twitter two-factor authentication or
multi-factor authentication is an
absolute must these days okay
however he warns do not rely on your
cell phone because as in like the number
or the device the phone number so as SMS
as to FA
oh don't rely on your SMS as to FA
because your phone number can be hacked
quite easily oh yes a sim swap can occur
quite easily yep and that's some food
for thought because if you're relying on
your phone's phone number that can be
hacked that can be obtained and used by
someone else so for anybody who's
watching that's going i-i've just lost
$1,000 in Bitcoin I'm sorry for your
loss hey uh you said that's so
straight-faced good if they're going
okay so I don't want to use my cell
phone number for two-factor
authentication what other options are
available for them for two okay
the Google Authenticator app I mean
there's other Authenticator apps there
are tokens that you can purchase okay
you can get them off Amazon I mean you
can get physical hardware keys that have
a token that that do look for things
like single-use passwords
and it's easy enough I mean Google
Authenticator works pretty well and and
you just don't want to you don't want to
lose your phone because that causes a
problem yes if you lose your you can use
your phone as the authentication device
but Robert is very specific in his
phrasing when he says don't use your
phone number
whereas the two FA right and that
absolutely makes sense
absolutely Google Authenticator on the
other hand and I say that because that's
a very common one there are other
Authenticator apps or a single-use
password one-time password OTP apps
available but they generate a password
and they refresh every 15 seconds or
something like that so it it makes sure
that that one-time password is only
available for 15 seconds yeah so if you
don't have your phone you're not getting
in and you really do need multi-factor
authentication on every service these
days period oh I was period yep yep and
it really does it's not the perfect
solution it's not you don't be
complacent but realize that if you don't
have to FA you are in a very risky
situation these days well I was a part
of a Kingston tweet up tweet up I guess
they call it the other day about
encryption to FA those kinds of things
and one of my comments was like if you
had a device that had a bunch of data on
it and you left it on your car seat and
someone stole it would one would you
lose any of the data and two would they
gain access to that data and the answer
to both of those questions should be no
correct and that encryption should be
authentication enabled you should have
two FA in order to be able to access the
data so even if they figure out the
decryption they don't have your phone
they don't have your Authenticator app
so they can't gain access to that data
that's very very important these days
folks yes I can't stress that enough
wild yeah
Wow time flies Jeff especially with the
world goes nuts over why don't we what a
day this is just one day in the life of
tech geeks yes so welcome to our world
I gotta say I wasn't impacted by any of
this I was running my lecture Robby I
was running my Linux machine at home I
didn't have any windows that look bro it
didn't under bird was fine I'm not a big
enough entity on Twitter to have to you
know get my Twitter hacked I just you
know everybody leaves just the ginger
beer to load we've got a head over to
the news room here is backup with you
knew your news stories for this week
here's what's coming up in the category
5 TV newsroom Microsoft's flight
simulator 2020 will launch on August
18th samsung expects 6g to launch as
early as 2028 the average cost of
charging an electronic vehicle in Canada
is just two hundred and seventy seven
dollars per year Facebook and Sony are
preparing to increase output of upcoming
gaming devices a vulnerability in
Windows DNS server can allow hackers to
run malicious code as admin on all
computers on your network and Lego and
Nintendo are making a Lego nes stick
around the full details and this week's
crypto corner are coming up this is the
category
stop texting with a slight Linux bias
from the newsroom I'm Becca Ferguson
after a series of closed alpha tests
Microsoft's Xbox game studios in a sope
studio announced Monday that the
next-gen Microsoft Flight Simulator 2020
will launch on August 18th pre-orders
are now live and the game will come in
three editions standard for $60 deluxe
for $90 and premium deluxe for 120
dollars with the more expensive versions
featuring more planes and handcrafted
International Airport's the last part
may come as a bit of a surprise given
that Microsoft in asobo are using assets
from bing maps and some AI magic on a
juror to essentially recreate the earth
in all of its airports still the team
must have spent some extra time on
making some of these larger airports
especially realistic and today if you
were to buy even one of these larger
airports as an add-on for Flight
Simulator X or X plane you'd easily be
spending $30 or more the default Edition
features 20 planes and 30 hand modeled
airports while the deluxe edition bumps
that up to 25 planes and 35 airports and
the high-end version comes with 30
planes and 40 airports all the airports
are still available in the lesser
versions just without the extra detail
based on what asobo has shown in its
regular updates so far even the 20
planes in the standard edition have been
modeled in far more detail than in
previous versions and maybe even beyond
what some add-ons provide today because
a lot of what Microsoft and asobo are
doing here involves using cloud
technology to for example stream some of
the more detailed scenery to your
computer on demand chances are we'll see
regular content updates for these
various editions as well though the
details here aren't yet clear as flight
simulator 2020 is about to enter its
closed beta phase we can expect to see
more details in the coming weeks leading
up to the release while we're still
waiting for the mainstream transition to
5g Samsung is already beginning to
discuss 6g which the company expects to
be commercialized as early as 2028 in a
white paper published Tuesday Samsung
has said it expects the International
communication union to begin working on
6g in 2021 the amount of time and work
dedicated to developing each generation
of networking has shortened as time
passes samsung said in the white paper
that the company expects the earliest
commercialized date for 6g to be 2028 it
also states its belief that mass
commercialization will or could occur by
2030 samsung believes 6g will equally
serve humans and machines as the main
users 6g will be will rain in an era of
advanced services for truly immersive
extended reality - LED mobile hologram
and digital replica 6 G's performance
requirement so much must reach a peak
data rate of 1000 gigabits per second
and air latency of fewer than 100
microseconds
for comparison's sake that's 50 times
the peak data rate of 5g and 1/10 the
latency the company has identified the
three major pillars and requirements
that will make up 6g in order to fully
realize 6g performance architectural and
trustworthiness requirements must be met
5g was mainly focused around increased
performance Samsung's white paper notes
that 6g architectural and performance
requirements will overcome hurdles made
by the limited computational capacities
of mobile devices trustworthiness will
address privacy and security concerns
curious if an electric car will save you
money on fuel costs a report in Canada
shows that the average cost to charge an
electronic vehicle in Canada is just 277
dollars Canadian per year which is
roughly 203 USD you switch who generated
the report looked at the average price
per kilowatt hours in 50 different
countries the average mileage per driver
and the average miles electronics
vehicles get on a full charge to
determine this statistic using this
method Canada is one of the least
expensive countries to own an electronic
vehicle in since the electricity is
relatively cheap in some parts of the
country the most expensive countries are
Denmark Germany and Belgium but even in
the worst case we're talking amounts of
a
$800 per year for the average driver the
data shows how much money drivers can
save by moving away from gas-powered
cars if it costs around $60 to fill up
and you need to do that roughly once a
month that means you're paying more for
gas in four months then the average
electric vehicle owner will pay in a
year
you
welcome to the world of kryptos and
welcome to the crypto corner it has been
a fantastic week again not of course if
we look into the numbers like Bitcoin
state around 9200 or theorem around 240
so no huge developments in this area
here but if we sort by seven days then
we see that we had some coins that
increased by over 100% like Elrond dibi
60 percent over twenty coins increased
more than 15-percent and only four coins
lost more than fifteen percent so a
positive development from that point of
view in the market if we look we compare
for example the history of the big coins
in the defy market like maker or or
khyber or 0x when compared with the
profit of theorem then we'll see that
the theorem state more or less flat at
0% so I lost minus 0.3 percent but all
these others gained over thousand
percent so huge development that is
happening under the hood in the crypto
market and so one has to be careful also
at the same time on where to invest and
how to invest because you might lose a
lot of money one area that is the case
is here you know I don't know if you've
seen those but those are ads in YouTube
or even this is a live YouTube channel
that is currently transmitting and here
you see hey you can win a lot of money
if you just participate in this scam the
old scam so don't even think about
putting some money into it I can
guarantee you you will never see that
money back yeah and so how did I do that
nobody really knows but you see them as
advertisements and also as channels
promoting here and as you can see this
one here mr. Kidd Kidd has got three at
39,000 it's all fake
so they're masters in in conning people
also the famous pump in dumps so price
goes up because some people are
promoting it in this case tick tock some
kids
promoting dogecoin a coin that has got
no purpose and the price went up by over
forty fifty percent in one day next few
days it came down again so be careful
with these things don't participate
there the moment you hear about some
pump it will still be too late again
because those that started that pump are
already planning on how to leave that
one next is if we look into compound and
if we want to borrow rent some money and
then there is some collateral factor in
here yeah so sixty percent in other
words if I put in 100 percent then I can
take sixty percent out so there's over
an over collateralization in in this
industry and that's how most of these
are staying on a fairly low risk basis
but there has been a new development of
is the first one that is starting now
with credit ik credit allocation so in
other words you can have a credit
without even putting up some collateral
and the way they solve that is that you
have to sign a contract with a person
that gives you all whom you give the
money and it will be sorted out in an
illegal or regular court in case there
is a default so that's an interesting
development I find now another
interesting development but more on the
negative side or not negative but one
has to be careful is tether as you
remember tether has got from the 24-hour
volume it's number two or usually number
one so you see it's very close to a
Bitcoin with 19 billion being traded you
know in 24 hours most of that is between
exchanges of coming from china because
chinese like to put the money in to
tether to keep it there but on the
downside is they have been sued by the
New York Supreme Court because money
disappeared between the company of pit
Phoenix and Teller and they both belong
to the same company and and it's a it's
a bank that went bankrupt and
850 million dollar disappeared and so
this Court wants going into detail in
regards to tell us so that might be
really bad news for tether so be careful
also on your end with tether now the
last three ones is what's going to
happen coming week the first one is here
bindings - has got an exhibition that
started today with fairly good keynote
speakers as you can see it's ongoing
already there are a lot of Chinese
people speaking in Chinese which I find
interesting so it's there's a shift
towards Chinese speakers and it's a good
exhibition the other one is Asia
blockchain always a huge one and also
very good speakers like Chris Hatfield
or has their peers Adam back one of
those big Bitcoin gurus that we have
vitalic butylene just for fun go
subscribe to see and listen to vitalic
it's if you understand something curious
to you and the last one is the Singapore
blockchain also with some very good
speakers and very good two headlines
interesting presentations they're giving
you like Charles from Cardno is going to
do some presentations is always
fantastic to listen to roger very
controversial personal industry that's
also presenting well just subscribe to
these it's worth the experience and it's
worth just following what they're doing
it's great and they're usually free so
yeah that's it from from us this week so
I hope you enjoyed it I hope you learned
something and I'm looking forward to see
you next week again so thank you very
much for watching Facebook and Sony are
gaming certain devices Facebook's oculus
the global leading provider of virtual
reality headsets by market share is
eyeing growth of at least 50 percent
from a year ago for its latest version
of head-mounted VR devices pushing
production to 2 million units meanwhile
Sony the world's number two video game
console maker after Nintendo by
shipments has also raised production
orders for its upcoming PlayStation 5 to
around 9 million units from the roughly
six million units it had planned earlier
this year the playstation 5 is the first
completely new generation of the console
in seven years after Sony launches a
PlayStation 4 in 2013 and an upgrade in
2016
Facebook's move further underlines the
social networking giant ambition to
further expand its footprint in the
emerging VR market where it is the
market leader with around 35 percent
market share its first all-in-one vr
gaming system oculus quest became a hit
after it launched last May compared with
the psychical and relatively mature
games console market which is dominated
by Nintendo Sony and Microsoft market
watchers said VR was still a nation
market where a lot of players are trying
new applications but gaming is still the
most important segment counterpoint
senior analyst Karen Shaw Han said
during the pandemic the gaming industry
witnessed a record number of online
player additions as more consumers are
considering gaming for entertainment at
home
Facebook is looking to further expand
standalone VR which gives users a more
immersive experience than PC and
smartphone based VR headsets the US
company said in June it will stop
selling oculus go its entry-level VR
device which went on sale in 2018 to
focus on the oculus quest and rift
offerings it's more powerful in high-end
products
oculus rift s introduced in 2019 still
needs to be connected to a computer to
function Mark Zuckerberg said in an
earnings conference earlier this year
that the company's revenue categorized
as others reached 297 million dollars
for the January March quarter up 80
percent from a year ago which was driven
primarily by sales of oculus products
the VR market is growing
HTC formerly a leading smartphone makers
shifted its focus from headsets to VR
while Sony launched its first
PlayStation VR in 2015 Google Samsung
Electronics and Huawei Technologies all
introduced foam based VR headsets using
smartphones as the
your headset screens Apple has been
working on augmented reality technology
for years and has reportedly entered a
trial production for an augmented
reality device recently the worldwide
shipment of all types of VR devices last
year was around 10 million units
Facebook Sony and HTC together accounted
for 69 percent of the market but
excluding mobile VR which requires a
smartphone the overall VR market shipped
around four point three four point three
two million units with Facebook shipping
roughly 1.5 million devices Microsoft is
urgently advising Windows Server
customers to patch a vulnerability that
allows attackers to take control of
entire networks with no user interaction
and from their rapidly spread from
computer to computer the vulnerability
dubbed cig red by researchers at
checkpoint who discovered it resides in
Windows DNS a component that
automatically responds to requests to
translate a domain into the IP address
computers need to locate it on the
Internet by sending maliciously formed
queries attackers can execute code that
gains domain administrator rights and
then from there take control of the
entire network the vulnerability is
present in all Windows server versions
from 2003 to 2010 the researchers said
that it's were mobile meaning it can
spread from computer to computer in a
way that's akin to falling dominoes with
no user interaction required computer
worms have the potential to propagate
rapidly just by virtue of being
connected and without requiring
end-users to do anything at all when a
worms underlying vulnerability easily
allows malicious code to be executed
exploits can be especially harmful as
was the case with both the wanna cry and
not Pecha attacks from 2016 the shut
down networks worldwide and caused
billions of dollars in damage checkpoint
researchers said that the effort
required to exploit Sigrid was well
within the means of skilled hackers
while there's no evidence that the
vulnerability is actively under exploit
at the moment checkpoint and said that's
likely to change and if it does the
destructive effects would be high
Microsoft rated the chances of exploit
is more likely many outside researchers
concurred security reacher
researcher Marcus Hutchins fears
attackers will exploit Sigrid in an
attempt to wage crippling ransomware
campaigns in that scenario attackers
would take control of a networks DNS
server and then use it to push malware
to all connected client computers
Microsoft issued a fix as part of this
month's update Tuesday organizations
that use Windows DNS should carefully
assess the risks and install Tuesday's
patch as soon as possible the
collaboration between Lego and Nintendo
will go beyond the lego Super Mario
series of playsets set to launch in
August Lego is also making a brick based
version of the classic Nintendo
Entertainment System on Twitter the
official Lego account posted a darkened
video of an upcoming set with the words
are you ready to play like never before
the five-second teaser shows what is
clearly an NES system a controller and a
CRT television which would logically be
composed of plastic Lego bricks can't
quite see it here's what the video looks
like after we brighten it up in result
the 2646 piece lego nintendo
entertainment system set will feature an
elaborate build for the brick based
television a crank on the side of the TV
will make an onscreen Mario jump up and
down and make the on-screen play field
scroll right-to-left the set also
appears to work with the Lego Super
Mario sets clear photos of the Lego NES
were also leaked showing the 8-bit
console with its controller a Super
Mario Bros cartridge and a vintage tube
television and on Tuesday Nintendo
posted a video to their YouTube channel
which shows the set being built
it'll be pricey listed at 300 euros Lego
and Nintendo have not officially
announced a release day for the Lego any
a set as of yet but we expect the
announcement soon thanks for watching
the category-five TV newsroom don't
forget to Like and subscribe for all
your tech news with a slight Linux bias
and if you appreciate what we do become
a patron at patreon.com slash category 5
from the category 5 TV
newsroom I'm Becca Fergus
well thank you so much for being here
with us this week everybody it's been
fantastic having you here it's we're
never sure what's gonna happen and this
week has been with everything that
happened this week well just
unbelievable and and we only scratched
the surface of a Wednesday and the life
of a tech geek I didn't talk about all
the other things that I had to deal with
today Jeff I'm sure there was a lot it
was white though the week white the day
but nice to have you here and and great
that we could still produce a show and
be here with you and I appreciate you
being here with us so very much I'll
remind you to please follow us on
Twitter at category-five TV I'm
personally on Twitter at Rafi Ferguson
as well and I follow back and don't
forget our website is category-five dot
TV and all of our programming comes
together there you can find out more
about the products that we talk about
you can find out more about well you can
follow the series that we cover and so
when you find a topic that you like hey
you can punch the name into the search
and you'll see every single video that
we've ever talked about it on right it's
fantastic that's category-five dot TV
great resource for you and we've got
thirteen years this behind us this is
episode number 659 659 yeah so there's
been a lot of hours of video here in
category 5 so appreciate you having here
I appreciate having you here I'd
encourage you to please check out our
patreon patreon comm slash category 5 as
a way to support us and make sure that I
can keep Jeff coming back because I got
a I got to pay for those cupcakes
somehow folks lo you know what the
cupcakes will keep me going back that's
it so I mean they're not cheap
bakery fresh cupcakes I need your
support if only that was all I had to
pay for in a monthly that would be so
nice Wow very not good for the waistline
but oh my gosh though that looked a
really delightful
but I was won't split it with you but
you just you wouldn't
you're still trying to like when you're
getting healthy challenge and I'm like I
admittedly I am down about 20 25 pounds
Fanta so you've actually lost more
weight than me now I was I was coming
into this thing lighter than you well
you know my 14 pounds plus you you can
notice it if you look back at old videos
yeah but you're looking good I can see
it uh he know it's funny I don't see it
but then I look at myself everyday look
at a video from a year ago well I can
look at a video from like the last
shooting in studio D yeah cuz I've live
in only five pounds since then fantastic
yeah well done so keep it up man and you
can actually join our discord server
it's just go to our website category 5
TV click on interact and join our
discord server and there is a discord
room called Biggest Loser and it's just
a place for us to get together as a
community and encourage one another in
our weight loss regime and it's I'm
generally affected I don't post there
because I'm not really actively doing
anything do you kind of watch what I do
watch yeah I do enjoy all the various
photos of like I've done 10,000 steps
I've done 20,000 steps I have done 1316
so you basically just woke up and came
to the studio because I think that
hallway is almost a thousand steps I'm
at 53 99 so not very not a lot of
walking on this Wednesday farad I'll
tell you what I was a lot of sitting at
my desk answering calls yeah thank you
Microsoft but I'll do better next time
excellent you check-in all right so have
a fantastic week everybody it just a
heads up we are gonna have some strange
weeks coming ahead so just so you know
if you're watching this and and you like
to tune in every single week I'm gonna
be taking some vacation time it's been a
tough time for everybody I'm going to be
taking some time off with my family
excellent I'm still not entirely sure if
we're gonna have a show next week okay
but I'm definitely sure that I
gonna take a couple weeks off at the
start of August so August 5th August
12th we will not be here Oh God but know
that my heart is in it but I am gonna
take some time some downtime yeah and
I've got the contractor coming in we're
gonna be tearing this place apart over
the next couple of weeks as well which
is here because we just moved in yeah
but all we have is a wall I mean it got
nice lights yes yes yeah gonna do more
but we're gonna do more so so be
watching for that so I I will see you
soon I will be on discord and I'll be
keeping you apprised if you are a patron
or a Kickstarter supporter so if you're
not and you want to be kept apprised as
to what's going on behind the scenes
when we're off off the air over the next
few weeks make sure you support us on
patreon and that's a great way to be
able to participate you'll be able to
see those behind the scenes videos as
well so there is stuff going on I'm not
completely gone just that we won't be
broadcasting from the studio space
during that time allowed to have a week
or two off I need a week or two off dude
it's been quite the year I'll tell you
what so far so we made it through and
even though we were off the air during
the month of March and so some might
think oh well you've already had some
time off well that good ass that was
intense
because during kovat 19 we moved yeah so
for me that was not downtime whatsoever
no but not only that you tried to engage
the community and I think almost every
day for the first what two months you
were doing a coffee break yeah that was
an hour so I mean you went from one hour
or one hour a week yeah to to less
production time yeah to doing multiple
hours of coffee breaks and I mean there
was a lot of good dynamic content you
know it was community involvement but
still like that that was busy and and
that that's a good point I should raise
that we will be having a coffee break
this weekend so just note that you know
as you're watching this we will have a
coffee break on Sunday as planned but
I'm gonna take two weeks off I've earned
it after 13 years I've earned it that's
two weeks every 13 years yes all right
I'll take it
we'll go easy on you though
but thank you so much for your support
and for giving us the opportunity to do
this show I mean it's such a privilege
to be on this side of the camera and to
get to know our community through our
discord server as well have a wonderful
few weeks I guess everybody and we'll
see you again soon take care
