okay so my external storage drive like
my USB drive that I plug into my
computer and copy files to write is a
single spinning hard drive in an
external chassis plugged into USB 3.0 so
it's pretty fast but I have this fear
that like if I ever dropped it one it's
a spinning Drive so you know it's not
gonna survive the drop two it's a single
spinning drive so if it didn't survive
the drop or if it crashed for some other
reason maybe a zap from you know
whatever the problem is that it's the
only there's no redundancy it's like the
drive right there's one single storage
device within that I feel like that's
least like you I feel like this is one
of those cases where how did this happen
and that's where we're going with this
tonight Sasha so I have not one but two
Kingston SSD now 38 what are these these
are the the 960 gigabyte UV 500s they
picked off a pic you can pick these up
on Amazon they're MDOT two drives now
these are SATA so like basically these
are like the hard drives of now that you
would put into your computer
there's no spinning parts there's
nothing that is going to fail
if you drop it from a reasonable height
and and it's very much less susceptible
to something like shock or or just like
later - well yeah it could be how many
times do I hear about somebody who's got
their drive plugged into the computer
you copying their files over and the dog
knocks it off the desk will say the dog
that's what they tell us yeah but you
know that's dog ate the homework you
know that's exactly how it goes down
so why do I have to well I need
redundancy I want to be able to have
like a raid one scenario going on but
how would I possibly do that with m2s
any ideas keeping in mind I want to
replace the need for an external
spinning hard drive
huh and so are you don't want it to be
via the USB three no Jeff come on USB
three is so yesterday I understand about
yours are you using it for portability
so USB 3.1 rep - ah excuse me I know I
know
okay so let's show you I'm gonna jump
over to the unboxing table and show you
how this is gonna be done all right so
here they are folks we've got two
Kingston MDOT twos again these are SATA
drives make sure you don't grab the nvm
ease because it's not going to be
compatible with what we're doing and
I've been seeing these types of devices
on Amazon over the past little while and
I thought dude we have to take a look at
these just a nice little card to say
have a nice day please give us a rating
and we've got our instruction book which
we will refer to but as you can see it's
pretty straight forward nice and simple
stuff but let's get further into the box
okay screwdriver we have a lot of those
we've got some feet like non-slip and
feet we've got some screws and all that
kind of stuff and we've got a USB C
cable let's get into that oh there we go
so this is USB C again this is USB 3.1
Rev - I kind of alluded to that what
does that mean it means that this
external chassis is going to provide a
connection to your computer at up to 10
gigabits per second what does that mean
well what do we know about the SATA 3
specification it's six gigabits a second
so if you wanted an external unit that
was as fast as could possibly be well
consider that these cards here these m
dot two chips are six gigabits a second
okay so this device here is going to
connect to your computer at up to 10
gigabits a second that's why the
revision two is important so am I going
to get 10 gigabits a second no not not
in a rate one scenario I'm gonna get six
because these devices are limited to six
now I could set these up in a raid zero
and then I'm gonna get 10 gigabits a
second for sure but in the case of a
raid 1 I'm going to get the limitation
of the SAT
a bus which is is six gigabits a second
so I say that because revision two of
the USB 3.1 standard is important if
you're shopping for one of these types
of devices if you go with revision one
it's half the speed five gigabits a
second so then you're not going to be
maximizing the speed keep that in mind
you want the full speed of these devices
that looks like a football field with
little yes do you see that it absolutely
is a touchdown folks so we've got LEDs
on the front these LEDs are going to
show activity as well as whether or not
this is important okay because what
happens if an MDOT two fails this is
going to show if an MDOT two has failed
okay now maybe you mentioned is that a
metallic case or is it plastic it is
metallic okay this is a aluminum case
okay the black you may think it's
plastic and if you look at the photos on
Amazon this particular one it looks like
it might be plastic but no it is
aluminum and so that helps with the heat
dissipation to MDOT twos can get a
little warm this one should do pretty
well and it's got some vents in the
front now that said it doesn't have to
be this one I'm gonna link to this at
cat5 dot TB / USB flash however I also
have linked to a couple of other ones
that I recommend there which are going
to do about the same thing you just
choose the one that you like so if you
look here these are the m dot two slots
so we actually have two m dot two slots
up to 33 eighty millimeter okay so you
have to make sure that the one that you
buy so the chassis that you buy is
compatible with the type of m2 that you
buy so these are thirty three eighty
millimeter chips that I got from these
are the kingston SSD and they're gonna
basically fill this the eighty right
there you can get other sizes as well
right down to like yeah thirty-three 30s
or whatever they happen to be I don't
know what that size is that's awfully
small okay so let's let's see if we can
put this thing together so this is what
is incredible about this is it's going
to give us a raid one architecture in
the form factor of our standard SS
our standard external SSD I should say I
feel the need to point out you have not
read the instructions I haven't read the
instructions yet Jeff have some trouble
with this how difficult is this though -
okay grab our MDOT - oh and I don't have
a box cutter with me if you read the
instructions maybe you would yeah
Jeff throw me a box cutter you have one
in front of ya I didn't read the
instructions I don't have one okay oh
here we just got to be one I got one oh
no that look at that I could have
pretended that you brought it to me and
save the day yeah I just had to I just
had to look around that's all so you
need a box cutter and marsh man is like
amen brother there we go so there's our
first MDOT - remember this is a SATA M -
I've gone with 960 megabytes which is
about the biggest that you're gonna find
right now and this is because it's SATA
not nvme it's gonna be compatible with
this device so I'm gonna just pop that
in there and put it down there now I can
grab the screw to fix that which i think
is the silver one did you say I think
well there's two silver ones and four
black ones so I expect that this two
silver ones are the two and VMI's I'm
telling you the instructions here folks
if it doesn't work you're gonna see it
not work there you go MDOT two number
one I think we can add a second one
without reading the instructions Jeff do
you think this can be done I feel like
you're gonna do it anyway just because
you're the bald nerd yeah you know what
it doesn't work and I did it then
there's something wrong with the pro
with the product set up the cherubs
asking if you said megabytes yes 960
gigabytes
did I say megabytes Harry you said
megabytes nice see I am stuck in the
past here folks this is the little tiny
gold thing to be able to fix the m2
which is in fact 960 gigabytes we're
talking a terabyte here folks
does that make a little more sense to
you in this 1999 oh wait it's 2019 as I
do this flux capacitors working there we
go okay so what has me so excited about
this Jeff sascha it's smaller than a
hard drive I'm gonna have to read the
manual
oh yeah oh because we have little
switches dip switches let's call them
dip switches shall we read the manual
Jeff
so what could these possibly mean all
right let's get in here now this makes
some good TV here folks rate settings
that those dip switches are for raid so
we have the capability of doing raid 0
raid 1 J baud let's see if I can get a
focus on this for you see the dip switch
settings Wow Robbie hold still dude
there you go so those dip switches are
actually going to give me a raid out of
my USB external drive very cool so rate
1 is what I want raid 1 is going to be
one is down two is up one is down two is
up this device is now set as a raid 1
with to 960 gigabytes and I was gonna
say nvme SATA MDOT 2s and so those are
in all essences each one of these chips
is a hard drive so we have one two hard
drives if one of them fails with a raid
1 what do we know it's going to be
mirrored to the other drive so if one
fails it's going to light up red on this
side here and then I just simply remove
that chip and replace it and it will
rebuild and I'll have all my data or I
can just operate off of the one chip as
I wait and it's still gonna have all the
data not gonna have any problems there
so then we're gonna put this right back
together like this a couple quick notes
on Amazon reviews somebody mentioned
that the PCB was not solidly affixed to
the case I'm not experiencing that
whatsoever there are itty-bitty screws
on the PCB I'm gonna let the camera
focus
you can see that the PCB is in fact
screwed into the chassis okay so we
don't have any issue with it flopping
around I wonder if maybe they didn't if
they didn't screw down their MDOT twos
and didn't do that correctly so let's
put this together just like that and
we've got four screws oh look at that
Jeff didn't even have to read the manual
for that I'm guessing the black screws
go like this well that one kind of makes
sense yes sir I still feel vindicated
well rounded out something after the
three years that you've been in tech you
finally figured it out bald nerd the
slight under exaggeration here we go
that is good TV right there it's funny
as you're like just putting in those
screws I'm thinking how many people are
watching this just watching you guys
screw in screws yeah what is this what
is this junk YouTube please comment
below I know you're going to there you
have it folks so this is now this one
I've gone with the glow trends so keep
that in mind if you go to cap 5 dot TV
slash USB flash and you really really
like this design I like it I do like
that it has a little bit of a grill at
the front that's going to allow some
heat to get out a little bit better it
is aluminum it's got the LEDs for an LED
for each of the m2s it's going to show
me the status as well as indicate data
flow and then on the back I've got a DC
input so if I do need to supplement the
u.s. PC I can I can put in an extra 5
volts there and that's going to help us
out then we've got an on/off switch
which is kind of cool and USB 3.1 Rev 2
is going to give us up to 10 gigabits a
second on this device of course I'm
gonna get 6 gigs because I'm doing a
raid 1 alright I'm gonna jump back over
here you want to hit that button for me
the wide shot there you go so that's
gonna be this is not a backup drive I
want to be clear that hey you don't use
these kinds of things for your your like
corporate backup necessarily but to have
some redundancy or something that you
need to take on the go this is like your
USB external
drive that now has redundancy built in
that is cool where can you find that
right like normally you're gonna have to
go with something much larger form
factor this is something that I can take
anywhere and keep it in my laptop bag
run I could run a backup of my laptop
and now do I have one copy on here and
one copy on my laptop well technically I
have two copies on here cuz I've gone
with the RAID one right you can do a
raid 0 which is a stripe so with the - 1
terabyte m2 s I would get almost 2
terabytes of storage but then if one
drive fails I can potentially lose the
data off of the failed drive so I wanted
this specifically for redundancy that's
my purpose not capacity because I could
for cheaper get a spinning drive that
has higher capacity like an 8 terabyte
USB external right this is gonna cost me
a little bit more but I have that peace
of mind of the redundancy no what about
corrupt files you know say one of the
drives you do a backup and it happens to
be something that's got malware on it is
it gonna transfer that messages yeah
yeah well I mean that's bad practice
right so sure but that comes down to
something completely different that
that's not something that's saved by a
raid fair enough but they're not
standalone drives in that respect that
is still run through them you can run
this as a j-bot which is just a bunch of
drives so it would actually show on your
computer as to hard drives when you plug
this in right and if it's running as two
hard drives or p.m. mode you can then
copy things to the first one and then
copy it redundantly to the second there
is something like that you could set
yourself up with some kind of transfer
like that if you wanted to but as far as
like if if ransomware hit this where
this would help in that kind of a
situation let's say I have a lot of data
on my laptop and I don't currently have
a good backup solution maybe because
it's 500 gigs worth of data so that
could be really expensive to put into
the cloud so with this I've got about a
terabyte of redundant storage so there's
two copies within this device so I would
then copy it from my laptop to this and
then I would put this in a safe
deposit box sure so then if my laptop
ever got stolen my laptop ever got
encrypted this is an what what I call an
untouchable backup so this is something
that would never be plugged back into my
laptop unless I needed the data to be
recovered so what kind of files you guys
we put in a safety deposit box well it's
just an example of keeping it off-site
right so now me personally I have the
advantage of I have home I have work I
have a studio I have places that I can
store things that are safe now the
average home user probably doesn't have
the same scenario you have to a safety
deposit box as my example of a safe
place to put this it's not going to get
plugged into a computer it's not going
to get damaged and it's untouchable by
ransomware or some other kind of malware
so then if my computer got hit then I go
get that wherever it is it could be mom
and dad's house sure yeah and and then
that becomes my files it's a really
affordable solution like it's gonna cost
you a fair bit I mean you're looking at
I don't want to talk pricing because
it's different from area to area
wherever you are
but I'm talking you're buying the
chassis yeah which is a raid enclosure
it's USB 3.1 you revision B so it's the
current standard as far as 2019
standards go it takes to two disks and
you need to buy two disks for it so it's
like buying two hard drives plus a
chassis so is it affordable yes
is it inexpensive is it cheap no it's
you you could definitely oh it's more
than piece of my stash ax so this this
is more than that for me but also for
for like the business user or somebody
who is pretty you know you're you're
pretty kind of you don't want to lose
your family photos right so copy them to
this there's two copies now and then put
it somewhere safe this is much better
much more reliable much safer than what
you're talking about like a cheap
consumer drive exactly and this is gonna
work a lot a lot better a lot faster
it's ten gigabits a second transfer
speed to the drives the drives can right
up to six gigabits a second so the
transfer speed of the bus is faster than
the actual drives are so think about
that if you put one of these em
twos in your computer it would be the
same speed as connecting this externally
right it's amazing so so it is a good
solution hmm it's gonna cost you some
money but it's worth I think the money
yeah and and certainly if you want
redundancy that's something that you
need to consider
check it out cat five dot TV slash USB
flash to learn more about the products
that I use tonight and there are a
couple of other options there that you
can look at as well and check it out let
us know what you decide on what you what
you think very cool
[Music]
you
