covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias in an era of digital
eavesdropping where hackers employ a
variety of means to take over built-in
video cameras peruse personal digital
data and snoop on cellular conversations
researchers have seen the light
literally viewers in the UK will want to
make sure their license is up-to-date
because here's an upgrade the BBC might
want to add to their TV detector vans
Israeli researchers report that they
successfully tapped into speech and
music inside an apartment simply by
focusing on a light bulb in a paper
published over the weekend the
researchers said all they needed were a
telescope and a $400 optical sensor
which they used to measure barely
perceptible light bulb vibrations
triggered by either voices or music in
the room
the research team conducted the test by
pointing a telescope towards a light
bulb in an apartment building 27 yards
away capturing the vibrations from the
ball they were able to reconstruct with
fair quality let it be by the Beatles
clocks by Coldplay and a snippet of a
speech by President Trump the
researchers said we show how
fluctuations in the air pressure on the
surface of the hanging bulb in response
to sound which caused the bulb to
vibrate very slightly
Amil a debris vibration can be exploited
by eavesdroppers to recover speech and
singing passively externally and in real
time they noted that a direct line of
sight to the bulb is required lampshades
or window curtains will prevent it from
working also the test sounds were played
at maximum volume the approach called
lamp phone is an improvement over recent
developments in eavesdropping technology
Ben nasi a developer of the program
explained any sound in the room can be
recovered from the room with no
requirement to hack anything and no
device in the room you just need line of
sight to head to a hanging ball and this
is it previous comparable approaches
include the memorable 2014 visual
microphone developed by mi
to Microsoft and Adobe that
reconstructed speech and music from a
room by analyzing micro vibrations from
a bag of potato chips sitting on a table
while impressive the device required
massive computational power and much
time to analyze recorded vibrations lamp
phone can be conducted in real-time
[Music]
