welcome to today's coffee break for
March 24 nice to see everybody and I
hope you're well
one thing I want to kind of shift with
the coffee break because I think you
know while we're not we're not here to
pretend that what's happening in our
world isn't happening but let's try to
keep things positive and and stay away
from some of the the things that you
know come to mind because we've been
listening to the media
you mind pause in that or yeah at least
turn it way down so how's everybody's
day going so I'm I'm at home I'm not
work from home because we've been deemed
an essential service and that's cool but
I did come home today just for for this
brief time and I have an interesting
thing happening today because one of the
one of the fun kind of shifts in our
world right now is that everybody's work
from home that that needs to be and
there's a an opera singer that we all
really love Claudel Podolia I don't know
if you guys have seen The Voice UK have
you guys seen clips of it yes
so do you remember seeing the opera
singer yeah the lady a few years ago no
no no the this this is like this year so
so season 9 no she's not a little girl
no she's she's a woman but anyways
needless to say she like all of us are
stuck at home in self-isolation so so
I've actually been able to set up with
her my daughter is gonna be getting
singing lessons today through zoom from
a UK london-based opera singer so that's
pretty cool so that so I came home so
that I could get her set up with that so
hi Ron Rob I like your background
oh thank you oh nice it'd be great for
flight sim yeah that reminds me 15 years
ago there was we have a show loosely
translated to around Norway a pilot he's
a captain in all not eatin the biggest
and with an L on SAS he and his son had
built in in the in one of the sheds in
the basement
they have a built a flight simulator
where they are seeing flying internally
and in very nice and a flight who
normally takes three hours takes to go
yeah it's real time cabin door nice I've
dreamt of one alien are like that the
dream as a teenager was always to have
like an arcade setup so I still have
like the steering wheel with force
feedback and all that kind of stuff in
storage
never a use for it but I dream that one
day I'll have a space and the kids can
play with that would be a lot of fun and
I'm gonna Faro runs monitor set up this
office is this is the whole size of the
office like my arms are touching both
walls oh yes and I make that worse I'm
actually on my wife's computer which is
like directly across it's like I could
touch both this is this is our office
which is actually like behind our closet
yep you have to actually walk through
the closet to get through the office
nice was that ever cool so tell your
safe room like we had to well six years
ago we had a house fire and we lost our
home
oh yeah so on the plus side we got to
build this wonderful new home and this
in the in the same location and so we
had to we have to work really hard to
figure
where we're gonna have our have an
office and I really didn't want to put
the office in the basement yep
so we managed to squeeze it in behind
the clock that's neat that's cool yeah
you actually have our books through plus
it's not just a walk-in closet yes we
have a walkthrough clock exactly it's
like a it's like a hidden hidden gem
right your house that's pretty cool yeah
hey Henry so that's cool I think Henry
has joined us I maybe he can only hear
us
oh and my puppy is coming to say hello
to Adler do you wanna come over here
Adler come say hi you can't really climb
by Zack yeah yes
Oh heed if he definitely wants to climb
over you yeah this is Adler everyone
just so you know Roby there is a flood
simulator on Linux yes cool okay that's
that's my pine Book Pro Oh what what
flight summer simulator is it that you
use on the next one class yeah what is
that
it's called flight gear flight gear okay
yes it is I think I actually in that
same in that same big Rubbermaid tub as
the steering wheel I have an old
logitech flight stick with the like the
accelerator whatever you call it
everything yeah I like back in maybe my
early 20s I got into collecting those
kinds of peripherals and then never
actually I mean I used them for a while
but just put them in storage and decided
I would never get rid of them because
it's the kind of thing that you just
don't want to have to replace when the
kids are old enough to use them what was
that I said my relatives are on the
floor your ramekins no my rudder pedals
rubber pedals how did I hear ramekins
that you used to control the
murdered rudder okay yes I got you I
don't have I don't have that but the the
force feedback steering wheel does have
the gas and brake and a gearshift and
Allah wants a cup of coffee
yeah takes it takes me some space hey
storm chaser welcome we can't hear you
yet doesn't seem and I am I've still got
to go back to work and I'm covered in
dog hair now hey there you are
yeah we can hear you now welcome so this
being our coffee break how many of us
besides myself actually have a cup of
coffee in their hand I don't see enough
coffee oh okay yeah coca Scott caffeine
I guess that counts
yeah I'm halfway done this and we just
started how's everybody faring today
everybody doing okay he is passing
through here he's one of the few to do
so is he wearing any kind of respirator
or anything like that to keep him
himself protect them taxis or plastic oh
good yeah yeah very good very good no
cash family which is a bitter and could
be a bit troublesome because in Norway
you are legally Allah you're legally
required to accept cash if one of the if
no yes so you can't deny anyone from
using cash register that stuff I think
if if everything is to schedule our
studio studio a is being painted right
now that is assuming the assuming the
painters are allowed to go into work
which I haven't heard otherwise so I
think I'll give them a call this
afternoon and the property management
company who's doing the painting for us
and just find out kind of what the
status is and see where when I can get a
key I'm so nervous about that I still
don't have a key for the painting yeah I
worked it into the lease so they will do
the initial like refresh painting so
nice so they're gonna like give it a
fresh coat of paint on all walls and and
they've cleaned the carpets and so all
that stuff is like it's ready to move in
and then my end of the construction will
just be having our contractor build the
sets so we don't need to actually paint
walls and stuff but we need to create
sets which are you know built out from
those walls yeah that says you're quite
a long time because plaster dry yeah I
don't know how that's gonna be but I
mean we're moving in on Saturday and
today's Tuesday so exciting yeah sure is
yeah and everything is gone quite well
so far I mean it I am nervous about the
fact I don't have a key but I can't
imagine they would close the doors
without telling me beforehand because
I've already I've already paid I've
already got the insurance and everything
in place Internet is meant to be
installed on Thursday so that's kind of
cool
so I wanted to have that in place before
we moved because then we can do vlogs
and stuff from there maybe a zoom for
the Kickstarter supporters and that can
five already cable what's that's all boo
what kind of connection you get it's
gonna be 50 up and a gig down yeah
it also has LTE failover so if our
internet goes down we've got the LTE to
broadcast over and we don't have to pay
you don't have to pay extra for the
bandwidth that's actually provided as a
failover service from the ISP whole new
world for category five that's for sure
yeah no more downtime but also like no
more having to downscale the 720 for our
live feed like I'm I'm pretty confident
we'll be able to do at least 1080p we
may be able to even go to K if we're
lucky so Oh we'll see so I don't I don't
I've never done that so I don't know
what kind of latency that introduces but
I suspect you know Google that has
really good low latency transcoders so I
think it should yeah the latency on
streaming sites way down the national TV
and my latency was about I mean it's it
after I came here 15 seconds wow I don't
think we've ever been that bad like
we're what about 20 30 seconds guys yeah
if you're watching live then it's on the
platform yeah yeah I guess so Roku is
much worse oh really
yeah what Roku model do you have bill
you know the top of the line oh yeah
like the current the current one okay
yeah that's surprising no I use ice I
still do the development on an old Roku
2 and I had thought and it's really slow
and so I thought about upgrading to a
more current one yeah because it still
works
yeah Roku makes any difference I think
it's just streaming streaming path but I
have a Roku 3 and I see probably
a 40 second delay from when from when I
say something a pig when I touch
something on the discord chat
yeah takes at least 30 or 40 seconds
before the peers right I'm gonna string
you you know what would be an
interesting go ahead sorry that what I
was thinking is it would be an
interesting test to bring up Cody and
Roku at the same time and see what the
latency difference is because those are
actually feeding from the same HLS
server so if if it is in fact the stream
it will probably be pretty well synced
if it's the Roku device or their
platform then that would tell us if it's
maybe something in that platform that
causes the delay maybe they have more
mustering or something YouTube on the
other hand bill is is a completely
separate feed we actually send directly
to them yeah that's that's about 15 to
20 seconds yeah that's that's incredible
yeah I mean considering we are sending
HD video and they're transcoding it down
to 320 and 240 and 480 and so that's
pretty good it amazed me when I first
got DSL which wasn't very fast at the
time I was able to do a ping to a
website back in Australia and get a
response around time response with less
than a second and I couldn't believe it
yeah blown you know yeah and here we are
like and I know that those who are
watching this on demand see it but I'll
show you guys so this is my pine Book
Pro which is a $200 Linux laptop gonna
do there's looking and there's what the
feed looks like so that's the feed from
my perspective and then I've got my
phone over here and everything's
Wireless right yeah that's so how this
the pile well does the pine Book Pro
work I haven't seen any of the category
5 videos on and I have too many reviews
on it so how well does it work in terms
of just an everyday do work machine I
gotta say you gotta watch those videos
dude I did I did kind of go through it
but you probably have a really good
perspective on this now I've been using
it as kind of a remote terminal and sew
it and it works fabulous for that yeah
yeah I rarely use it as a as its own
standalone just because I I I'm very
much a like a cloud-based worker so none
of my devices have like this device
doesn't have any files on it and if my
laptop breaks that says that's why I'm
able to recover so quickly anytime I
have a computer crash or something I
don't I don't really use the device
itself other than as a remote terminal
so for what I'm using it for which is
basically Google remote desktop into an
i-9 9900 K it operates as a screamin
little device so I can do my video
editing and everything on it because I'm
doing it remotely to the to the server
but does it standalone but I use it for
general stuff like just surfing the web
and uploading videos to YouTube and
stuff like that
the webcam is is pretty miserable but I
mean what do you expect it's not it
doesn't need to be good it's just it's a
convenience thing right it's definitely
worth it oh definitely oh for 200 bucks
yeah just be careful with it it's really
thin which gives it that really nice
sleek look but it also makes the plastic
pretty pretty you know you could see
that it you could crack it if you
weren't careful it is maybe not
recommended but again Sabu who's gonna
do that right that's not the intention
behind the device yeah you would yeah
you're you're you have way too much time
on your hands anything
but anytime I do compiling in a few
times a week yeah but but you would set
up with like a little i7 or something
that you can just fire on whenever you
need to do compiling and then you would
just throw your code on it and start to
compile it's like how I I render 2k
video from my pine Book Pro but I'm
connecting to an i-9 with MDOT to
storage right sorry what's that storm
chaser so you mean like cross
architecture compiling or something like
that you just throw it on the more
powerful machine and cross compile it to
the arm 6 aar 64 architecture and then
load it back onto your pine book or yeah
you could like if you're compiling
software that's a little different right
on the pine book sorry maybe I
misunderstood like certainly when I like
when I create MEMS Linux for example I
actually use each device to compile
itself to compile the software otherwise
it like so it's time-consuming unlike
the PI 0 but oh yeah it's worth it
because you know that the software is
gonna be perfectly compiled for that
architecture and that hardware so in the
do so that but I compile for we have I
think we have two arm architectures that
support someone donated of your devices
yeah and compiling is something that
takes an hour on a regular like it takes
zero four days that's crazy
so be what I would do in this case if
you wanted to use pine Book Pro for like
software generation is I would get a
Rock Pro 64 which is the same exact SBC
just a different form factor they just
kind of flatten it out for the notebook
you could compile on the rock pro 64
separate from your pine Book Pro and
then you just transfer the software onto
the pine Book Pro and then and then
you're not let you're not using the
laptop to do all your compiling
you still get hard software that's
compiled for that hardware might be a
fun way to do it so another thing that I
do as well
apart from compiling is I do a lot of
writing in a using the the Tex text
formatting language so what also known
as latex or latex tui it's all pure text
so it's really easy to version control
with some house meat or whatever you've
got and that's one of the reasons I like
it it has no trouble of even even the
pine book not the probe the phone book
has no trouble at all railing yeah
absolutely yeah what I do have a problem
if there's anything that's graphic
intensive and you've seen this Robbie
any time you drag a window around or
anything like that that will that will
cause a problem I haven't I haven't had
any of that kind of trouble on the pine
Book Pro I'm not surprised when you were
able to do that when you were able to
stream YouTube on the plane book pro se
I've got to get me one of those yeah and
that was on the Debian install okay so
have you ever tried the moonlight
project arm project moonlight moonlight
that's not no it's not it's it's a it's
an open-source game streaming thing so
basically you have a computer with an
Nvidia graphics card above with GTN 600
and then you and then you stream that to
any computer even remotely so you can
like not be at home where your computer
is and you can still stream it there so
you could do that I'm pretty sure you
can do that with the pen Book Pro that's
that would be amazing
yeah I've used similar technologies to
that and then stadia came out and it
really reminded me of that but I
couldn't remember the name of it because
the Google stadia is doing exactly that
with their supercomputers that basically
just got streaming computers that you're
connecting to I think that's that's the
next generation of gaming for sure the
third would still need a pretty strong
graphics card all new moment client
right on the point no that's what's
beautiful about it
it uses it uses like like video playback
so just as just as well as playing video
it must be a delight you couldn't really
play again real-time why do you think so
right remember we were talking about low
latency yeah it's insane now they've got
proprietary codecs that are just they're
unbelievably real-time Wow yeah I mean I
you think about it we all most of us
have gig down and if you're playing a
game like that you don't need to send
any data other than how many buttons do
you need on your controller I'll be
lucky if I get 20 20 min yeah
yeah I don't know that you could do it
with the SL I think you probably need
like 200 mega or more oh dear so I've
got like 15 megabits down 16 down and I
know I did both Direction beautiful oh
my goodness
I would love to get fibre to the hash
that would be just a wonderful thing I
mentioned it in text in the chats a few
months ago but maybe last year after
median I was downloading a YouTube
playlist because I it was just a static
video but each video was about 5 mm eggs
and it was about 10 tracks in their
playlist and then each track was
downloading so fast that I thought it
failed because in my previous left flat
I don't know something and it failed it
was just a few seconds and then it and
each track now downloaded at the same
speed as it previously used to fail a
few seconds before us no it's actually
yeah I uploaded the last time I uploaded
one of these coffee coffee breaks I'm
uploading it at the studio and and
took what was it an hour and a half sold
ooh I think and then I decide it was
having trouble transcoding to HD so I
downloaded it back again from Vimeo and
my download speed it took one minute she
no surprise at all yeah and I say I said
to the ISP where we're instead of what
we're installing at the studio I'm like
can't we skew this a little bit more
toward uploads like we've got a gig down
and 50 Meg's up like give me give me 500
500 or something right nope can't do
that so wouldn't it be nice if they
could skew it the other way for
broadcast HD a no-show to do that
wouldn't you instead of a cable or fiber
fiber would do it fiber is four times
the price though
oh yes the end up until I moved and in
this house phone service is not even
it's not installed even so yeah and in
the three three years they are shutting
down the entire base phone service in
the entire country they're going yeah
I'm all a void paste now like I don't
have a real phone line haven't for years
I cut the phone line when we moved into
this house and installed void so all my
phone jacks work that's interesting
because part of me is like that's kind
of sad because I still even though I'm
even though I'm like even though I'm
younger than the generation that got to
play with dial-up PBS's and all that
stuff I still like that idea that you
can just dial up a BBS over a phone line
sure but you say it's sad but it's
actually kind of cool because even
though I'm using VoIP as I said my jacks
are all active so we have traditional
like old-school phones plugged into the
phone jack and it doesn't like my
kitchen like it doesn't do it
it doesn't do the phone line equivalent
of packet drops no oh wow okay but I
mean like like if you want to go like go
retro right yeah that's my face is my
kitchen phone at the studio at the
studio we're putting in a payphone just
at Studio E so that's one of the things
on the shopping list so yeah I had yeah
I can't do that with VoIP I don't think
but yeah yeah the pay the pay phone
we're putting in has touch buttons but
it's made to look like a rotary phone
but it is buttons so yeah guys I gotta
get get rolling because we've got this
this singing lessons coming up but it's
been nice having you here for a coffee
break and my coffees empty so I need
another one of those doing this we'll be
doing this again tomorrow and I hope you
can join us don't forget to check out
our Kickstarter campaign at cat5 dot TV
slash kick I added a couple of really
cool perks there so check out what's
there if you haven't already supported
the campaign hoping that we would see
maybe a couple of companies that would
take on one of the sponsorship
opportunities so if maybe you have
friends who own businesses that are you
know maybe when we're all through what's
going on in the world right now they're
going to need some promotion I'd be
happy to work with them so there's some
really neat opportunities there too so
thanks everybody
thank you I couldn't speak today cuz
I've got the headset but he's here and
he would have participated if I had the
tech looks he's watching the office on
the TV at the same time so he's just
having having a blast
yeah actually had an office take it easy
everybody we'll see you tomorrow all
right everybody
you
