covering the week's top textbook
slight Linux bias arm has announced the
Evo's yu55 and the cortex m55 for edge
devices bringing an AI neural network
accelerator to futures car speakers
lightbulbs fridges and other IOT devices
the more powerful of the two known as
the cortex m55 is a general
microcontroller grade CPU blueprint well
the other names ethos yu55 is
essentially an AI accelerator the cortex
m55 is based on arms helium technology
the ethos u55 on the other hand is a
novel architecture forearm and has been
described as a micro neural processing
unit or micro NPU for short both
processors are available now to license
and are intended to be used together the
m55 running application code the yu55
doing all the neural network mathematics
in fast Hardware the senior director of
the IOT and embedded team at arms says
quote the micro NPU cannot be used on
its own it needs to be paired with a CPU
like the cortex m55 together the system
delivers 480 times the performance
compared to previous cortex-m
generations working on their own end
quote
we expect to see chips using these
blueprints early next year
awesome I can't believe this is real
life that neural processing units are
now I know heart of an SOC like this is
so it's just signed by - my what exactly
an eighties mind like I remember when
which Star Trek was it where they use
the neuro packs what are they called
oh my gosh one of the Star Trek's was it
enterprise maybe where there's like Oh
to have like telepresence yeah within
the the ship and like they would blow
out and they'd have to replace them and
there were like these gel pack things
and I'm like that would never happen
I think it was Star Trek I understand
that but I remember watching that I
think I Star Trek Enterprise and I was
like there's no way we're gonna have
that kind of advanced technology it's
not possible this is like 15 20 years
ago and now I'm watching stuff like this
come it's like neuro networks I'm like
oh my goodness every year there's a new
possibility and I never would have
expected this this is yeah like so we're
talking like the next gen of yes AI
which is so crazy that these little
chips can now process teraflops worth of
information like it's I don't know what
it really is but it's like ridiculous
amounts of data having to do with AI
right so that so the next thing is that
the you know coders will be able to make
thinking devices so those smart speakers
with this and with this technology will
be smarter is the fact that there are
two separate things like I'm surprised
that well you have to have a CPU you
have to have the ability to run
traditional code yeah otherwise you
wouldn't be able to like you wouldn't be
able to as a human interact with it
there has to be a layer for humans to be
able to access the NPU yeah hmm
otherwise it just blow our minds how
quickly before this would be adapted for
phones and technology in phones right
but I mean at this level
I don't know like because that could
change mobile computing sure it's gonna
change a lot of sauce that's the idea is
that it's getting faster smaller yeah
and more integrate that's the way
technology goes and so we're seeing a
massive shift in how data is processed
because we're specifically looking
toward AI and machine learning which are
vez
