it's time for our daily coffee break
everybody nice to see you
Peters there at the top left soul booze
kitchen oh they're so boo hiding out in
the back and then we've got Lance man 63
at the middle-left EP nines chair in the
middle and marsh man hi guys everybody
hanging in this is possible that's all
we can hope for right now bill that's it
trying to get back into the like I've
been working through this whole thing
but because because of the move I
haven't been like writing news every
week and doing video production every
week so I'll tell you what I'm gonna
hook up the having to hook up our audio
system again was like how do I wire this
again it's been so long right hey did
you get the instructions yeah yeah
pretty much
should I wrote it down or taking a
pictures and today I'm writing news
stories for the first time and as many
weeks right so about a month yeah yeah
which is tough because I don't want the
news to be all about Cove at 19 that's
for sure but that's practically
everything that's out there you know so
I'm having to weed through news stories
and try to find you know a positive spin
on each story and stay away from some of
the darker stuff that's out there right
now and well you can talk about what
Microsoft have done with github but you
can talk about any p9 yeah
note to self actually because you've got
the city at home story as well with
regards to use the SETI program and and
super computer power to find a cure for
Kovac well know what I was gonna say was
the search for no I'm thinking of I'm
thinking of the other one sorry SETI
search for extraterrestrial intelligence
right
because it has went down I'm still
thinking about fold yeah well folding at
home a lot of people are using that now
and I really need to switch my notes in
that as well but I haven't yet so that
is a good spin bp9 actually I like that
having an uproar on the governmental act
for tracking the infection because it is
not not open source and they have no
company volunteer on behalf of the
government and have publicly stated that
they are not open sourcing it because
that will give bad guys an easy access
to finding an bug so they are closing
this source to hide the bugs and at
least for github repos have appeared
that have decompile the code exactly
security through obscurity is not
security at all that's right yeah yeah
so I mean you can say yeah let's close
the source so that nobody can ever
figure out how it works well give it to
a good hacker who can actually find
exploits and they'll figure it out
well you're not going to see much
progress on the pun time from me
primarily because talk about that it's
only that you know I really can't move
much further forward without the actual
device itself yeah I hear ya I haven't
yet I don't know when it's coming
beau was mentioning that it's meant to
be coming out soon but we'll see I'm not
in it I'm not I don't know rash but I
mean I'm eager I'll say yeah well the
same is true for the point I'm in the
point the point the payphone yeah
everything that I have on order right
now is like just studio fixtures and
stuff to do that I found those those
clips for the ceiling lights all the
lights have arrived it's all pretty
mundane stuff but important for the show
yeah but didn't you say that Amazon was
taking longer to deliver or is that
actually
they're estimating I've had long-eared
things oh yes yeah if you go on Amazon
or presumably any other online store but
certainly Amazon like I'm a prime member
so I get two-day shipping on pretty much
everything on in the normal world not
anymore now you go there and it says
like if I order something today it's it
says it's gonna arrive May 14th but then
if you order that thing even though it
said May 14 all of a sudden three days
later it ships and you have it within a
few days so so I think they're doing
that because they know that they can't
depend on the current shipping situation
so it keeps them away so that they don't
have to keep doing a bunch of refunds in
everyday life really so go grab a key
avoid they drill to the job and now I
got the tip like the drill I just
thought that room shall be in a game to
die he got quite quickly
yeah really funny some things I said
Peter it was hilarious because they I
ordered the water cooler for the studio
and it said it was gonna be here like
May 11 it was here the next day the next
day meanwhile I order a box of cereal
for the kids and in it it took like six
weeks to get here I think Amazon is
being smart and they're overestimating
the amount of delivery time yeah that
arrives early people are going to be
happy if it's late I'm gonna be upset
sure that it reminds me of an idiom that
that I try to hold to in business and
that is to under promise and over low
form yes it works every time yeah I do
that with my quote I also give a little
bit this is the one flaw of zoom there's
an ever so slight delay so those who are
watching on demand just think that we're
constantly talking over one another but
because there's that ever so slight
delay it takes a moment and then we both
stop and then we both think okay well
I'll continue and the
nope we both started and it's that's a
flaw uh oh boy go ahead so be it might
also be that in some parts of the states
or in in the worse that they delivered
is to almost a month so they are being
safe it everyone I'm not just yes few
places yeah and for some things for sure
like for certain product I can
understand taking Wow funny enough not
to talk all about Amazon but just like
kind of the situation with ordering
online anyways it's not just Amazon
that's having trouble that power
distribution unit for the server rack so
this is again nothing to do with
anything other it's like a power bar it
has 20 outlets so it goes into the 19
inch server rack and that's what I plug
everything into so it didn't arrive two
weeks later it still showed that it was
sitting in a warehouse in Mississauga in
Canada Post and so Amazon said it's been
lost and I'm like okay well you know
what do we do so they shipped another
one and then today the one that was lost
arrived had been stolen yes yes and the
reason that I jumped to that conclusion
obviously it's like two weeks past due
and I paid for priority shipping on it
so I actually paid extra for the
shipping but I had a I had a giant box
bp9 have all kinds of assorted things
that I had ordered off of Amazon and
that box did get stolen out of the mail
hmm and so they resent everything but I
only received it once
so somebody actually stole a big box
from Amazon out of the out of the post
nah we're not on my doorstep or anything
like the actually out of the Canada Post
system I would recommend not sending a
SIM card through the mail because if I'd
go whenever I go back to Australia no
when I go back to Australia I typically
get a local SIM card and my phone I just
plug it into my phone replace it with my
regular
from take my ultimate put the Australian
see me and I get a local Australian
number for the duration of my of my trip
which works out you're not hangars are
roaming either no exactly
international roaming especially so so I
often I can get away with especially
fall I'm using his data and texting I
often get away with not even reducing
the balance on the seam at all but the
problem is you know I want to keep the
seam active until I fly out of the
country well typically because I'm from
Melbourne I'll fly Melbourne to Sydney
and then Sydney - to the United States
and then what I typically do is just put
the seam you know you know in an
envelope send it back to my sister and
so she can use whatever credit is left
on the side well last time I did that
the package got to her okay but it had
been torn open the sim had been taken
out and then everything sealed back up
again
they didn't even hide the fact that they
tore it open by now and then they
continued to deliver it all the way back
into the back to my sister Wow yeah yeah
once once we my wife and I we sent a we
we got a money order which we sent by
post to my father-in-law and not only
did it not arrive and it was for
Father's Day so here we are thinking
that he's received as his card and his
gift and it never got there so like two
weeks later we realized that he never
got his card and we're like oh my
goodness he thinks that we ignored him
on others day and but then we contacted
the bank and someone actually cashed the
money order but the money orders like a
chick it's made it so somebody had a
Rock they would have had to defraud
the bank either they had they had
generated ID that had his name or they
maybe they endorsed it with a fake
signature on the back or something like
that I don't know money or yes they're
easy to steal but what kids you're not
supposed to be able to
do not like checks not like sex at all
well money order he finds I suppose yeah
easily get away with it but there is
still apply when I was a teller back in
back in Australia I had to ask for ID
and proof that they had an account at
the branch that I was working at before
I would catch the check I had to have an
account with us or otherwise I couldn't
you know that I was lost
that's assuming the thief went to a bank
yeah maybe like this reminds me the
money that would be a this reminds me a
story that this was on the paper in one
of the papers here one or two years ago
an old post office was being we they
redid their reconstructed a part of the
building and it was many years ago that
it worked as a post office and they were
moving on all the Ahnold shelf what was
and behind the shelf they found a letter
that was posted sometime before the
Second World War
no way yeah and I think that the intent
there
we're still alive everybody I got a good
one little problems like I can't get the
sound to babe on it for some reason on
the address
I've got to ditch by up in put two
numbers on this reply and say when you
click the mouse it does of what shooter
I can't get it they panned the manam on
networking on the only term that Patrick
Saddam the guy I'm trying for a bit of a
vehicle like a motive a group for people
so what are you planning to do with it
Peter waters what's the aim of the
project I learned that one minute pretty
tidy different could you have an awesome
you haven't got the IP life and hanging
because I got the IPO I can't do certain
things and what's fun a healthy things
to go around it invite the guy back on
Google we go to a church 99% of the stop
telling my other friends that I lived
about an eye which is all very powerful
not don't you don't attend of it his
window by so he doesn't got many many
job ok so you have to do a yeah whatever
you go yeah I would put it on pro
provide that it is yeah I would opens of
the code and I will put it on github or
get lab or and then you can have other
people live you can put them to their
and and they can look at the code and
maybe they can see especially if you're
if you're lucky someone will give you a
PR yeah I will they want you look at it
they what do you think there were any
work say like oh you know he's almost
feeling something but forget all the
problems old you doubt I went through
what all of yesterday I did about so I
there's and I think one look inside that
midnight but well so and they get that
but I open it to Sunday so be what's the
bleach they for me come on in please
yeah that's what's that's what's needed
github to is its collaborative it allows
you to collaborate with other people
because like unless you find somebody
else that's working in is it Lazarus is
that what it's called yeah so then you
know it's it's tough because like you're
working on a project that nobody else is
working on so you put it up on github
and you hope to find people that are
you know yeah going about the same
process on the other they may
collaborate oddly to me though I don't
think that many people who did Linux
usually was Asura's properly they're
fantastic what they did was I use the
they use a Windows version by luring
here with the beeping work on Windows
and just not on Linux is that the idea
yes well yeah anybody uses a window
there's a likely you could try running
Lazarus from the command line like go
into a terminal and run the executive
also that it launches in on your desktop
but then if you look at the terminal
window it should show you any output of
any errors or libraries that are missing
yeah I can help you that can help you to
track down what library is mess Hey
they'd be good a good day because
they've got the windows one third or we
just don't know that as a library the
goal for my PLA and got the IP la there
and the other thing I noticed as well
wine maybe wine might have it if you
look in open wine effects
what wine why nobody works with the work
with Windows or Windows 10 programs but
I brought up on that route with Windows
10 enjoyable it would Wiley is back in
the Windows 7 or Windows
don't you think ago we get you're down
on me to Windows 7
yeah yeah yeah I'm going on or whatever
I don't like it okay yeah as well as I'm
trying to get you get you will run
sometimes but it's a bit things are
wonky and don't work I figured it but I
understand what you're doing is running
or programming in Pascal with Lazarus on
Linux that that pad I did yeah what I
don't what I don't understand yet is
what it is that the program you're
writing what what is it you're trying to
do with it what is it what what's that
program supposed to do
it's a game it did a simple number game
it's all good
good that's important I think the
important thing here is to have some
project in mind some problem you're
trying to solve because that will give
you the motivation to realm to work
through any problems in order to make
obvious oj oj windows before these we're
age rather quite good but does they only
get the profession had kids I didn't
window share the moment because I don't
know enough to know I would work another
library probably exactly with library
that they're not done existing in
wonderful because I remember I did in
Windows and pasted from the windows gold
they he said he lettered gold or one
machine and run under Georgia code or
one machine and couple on another but
Natalie drew if you use only that all
survivors within that that machine I
like yoga bunch of Oreo doesn't quite
work so the API won't be exactly the
same obviously you found that out I'm
sure you're not going to find the
windows API on Linux that's just not
happen so I've had the best success
using a graphical UI library called gtk
what happens is if you write your code
against the the GTA API then you compile
it on Windows it will translate directly
to the windows API if you compile it on
Linux it will translate directly to the
to the X Windows the library will do all
that for you
yeah what is only what they did they did
you date and I'm the big bad though can
you do that game yeah GG for golf team
tengo que for kylo is that graphic
toolkit I think so it's it's a good idea
to gnome toolkit yeah right okay
where they've now I don't know if you're
gonna find Pascal bindings for it you're
opening a can of worms here but I just
go on google and type GTL yes you're
gonna find you're gonna find see you
gotta find C++ you're gonna find c-sharp
I think you're gonna find Java PHP I
can't make PHP beep though bp9 you are
bang on when it comes to programming
like it's like your project with the
pine time my project with NEMS Linux for
example I like it's a motivator when you
have like an end game you know that your
pine time is going to arrive and then
you're going to be able to compile and
test this thing out so it's like you've
got a reason to be doing this and I like
an end result that you can say I've
achieved this with names the same thing
like I do all kinds of stuff with MEMS
and I have like I feel like there's
achievements along the way so so Peter
it's a good idea what you're at this
game yeah you've got this game in your
programming and you just keep chipping
away and plug away at each issue that
arises and if it doesn't you know if the
library doesn't work on Linux then just
work around it or make it so that maybe
it's a visual representation instead of
an audible it took me 10 years to
finally settle on gtk I tried w WX gtk I
tried FL TK I tried W X Windows I think
it was and I finally settled on JDK
there were there were there were things
I was trying to do that I just could not
do in the other tool kits but I was able
to do in GG case so ok is pretty
universal to like it's it's everywhere
so you're not gonna have I'm on I'm on
GT k2 right now
GT k3 is out I'm not
translated my programs to gtk tree and
one day i'll do that but honestly the
project I was working on when I built
this thing is done I don't have to
modify it anymore I can find ways to
tweak it if I want to but that parts
done now I have a solid groundwork in
order to in order to tackle any other
project like the part time right so yeah
I mean there are one program in my life
from the gone up in 96 or something I
had an old 286 computer but I I did not
know how big the hard drive was watching
this yeah so I made a program that in in
I got a copy of the turbo Pascal and I
remember the little brother over on my
friend had a program that I think he had
found somewhere
that showed how much how big the disk
was and how much free space you had
because endorsed you a guest I didn't
find a way to figure out how much free
space you had you can easily find how
much you used and then calculate how
much space you have left but that
involves you knowing how big the driver
was so I made I made five had a very
genius help system with all the
variables that you could use and then so
make samples of how you used it so I
combined a few things and then I made in
green text into lines and the numbers in
pink blinking as seeing so with that
that comes right back to you had a
reason to make something and then you
created it and you're filling a need and
I think that's where open-source really
works too is because these needs come up
and people code for the open source
community or for themselves for their
own needs and then release it to the
open source community
the idea of open softer yeah but I mean
but hey I knew what freer every well so
I'm I made I made it out put that it was
free right so the idea was that anyone
who got a copy could do what they wanted
with it and after I learned what the new
project and ADL then I realized it in
2008 into GPL and now it resides on
github so yeah so you remember that LDAP
program was Todd that program that I was
talking about but I was for the pine
time the pine phone yeah where I was
going to build a server that that that
the phone application could hit call
against if it wanted to in order to get
contact details well I finally looked at
at the phone lead got onto got back onto
this court and caught up on all the old
messages and Bo had dropped a response
that he had gotten from the from IRC or
from the chat room for the pine time for
the pine phone after I get Rock Pro and
rock or rock procession or rock 64 and a
64 and all these things mixed up bo had
pointed me to all his contact had
pointed me to evolution data service I
completely evolution about evolution
evolution is it is a it is a Microsoft
Outlook work alike it handles not to my
knowledge
I didn't think it was evolution itself I
think is still okay I haven't really
looked at it but that's gonna be my next
step before I build this thing I'm gonna
go hit search steady yeah I'd love to
I'd love to know what you find about
evolution because I was under the
that evolution was a dead project but it
was a beautiful project yeah but but it
it started having trouble a couple years
ago with exchange and like mappy support
so so we replaced with thin if not
nothing that's the prop so when you say
evolution clear up and I'm like is there
something are they still doing death no
well like Zimbra Zimbra made a desktop
edition that would allow mappy access
which was probably the best drop-in but
other than that I haven't seen anything
that's really compatible with maps well
I haven't haven't researched it yet but
that's one of the things I like to do
niche just to see what else is out there
it's an interesting evolution when it
comes to that kind of tech because
because now everyone in the clouds I
mean you seem brighter yeah but you're
using the cloud-based stuff now in a lot
of senses but that but if evolution has
some libraries and connectors that
you're able to tap into for CalDAV
that's we'll have to see I'll have to
see what it can do for me if anything at
all I don't know yeah let us know what
you find
that is we we got to wrap up guys I've
got to get back to work so it's been fun
having another coffee break today I'm
not really sure how like how the coffee
break is going to jive with my regular
schedule once the show is back on air
that's something that maybe we can
discuss over the next little while I'm
not sure if maybe I need to make it like
a once a week thing what what I'm gonna
run into just so you're aware because I
love I love doing this with with you
guys and for you guys what I will run
into yeah I'm glad you do what I will
run into is I'm a pro user on Vimeo and
that's where I upload the videos to now
keep in mind usually I do a single show
every Wednesday and that fills up our
account because you get a weekly quota
of 20 gigs this I did the math and this
is about eight or nine gigs per week
usage so that would push me to the point
where if I'm doing the show and the
coffee-break daily question I'll only
have 11 gigs
yeah I'm gonna surpass my limit I won't
be able to upload the show so I might
have to do this like once or twice a
week we'll see well see what works but I
want to keep it going
this was really an the intention behind
coffee break was to have a way for us
all to keep connected throughout the
course of the pandemic and we don't know
when that's gonna be over so at the very
least until we can all leave our houses
again I think it would be good to keep
this going as best as we can so and I
love having this time together
yeah sorry what's that beeping did
everything did everything go well
yesterday at the studio yeah it was it
was an intense day for me it was tough
because I'm I'm the only one allowed to
to go and set things up yeah and there
hasn't been any construction so I
drilled a two inch hole through them
through the drywall to run cables the
cables aren't quite long enough so I
have to have everyone kind of set in
that one corner so they can reach the
server in the other room and and and I
don't have enough power because the PDU
hasn't arrived it has now I'm gonna go
pick it up today but yeah just quickly
Jen did her service from the studio
yesterday morning which went very very
well and she was she's just take that
burden off of her was really really good
be able to do a couple of weeks ago
right yeah yeah well his wasn't life so
Jen's was different because it was live
first live broadcast recording okay no
no it was live so so that was really
cool and they had really good engagement
like over over a thousand people so that
was really good
and then I did two interviews so three
three different people so Sasha was one
of those and the rest you're just gonna
have to wait till Wednesday so it's
going well and then tomorrow I've got
more interviews booked so yeah I will be
ready for Wednesday it's been nice guys
looking forward already to chat with you
again tomorrow at our coffee break good
afternoon
you too Robbie
you
