hi everyone welcome to the coffee break
it's Monday and it's a holiday here in
Canada yes so it's like a Saturday to me
so you're not working today not well I'm
I'm not working as in my full-time work
but yeah getting things done so oh well
yeah I got the mug we didn't coordinate
today bp9 I told you to probably only be
Saturdays but that's all right not a
problem because of the holiday we'll
have to do we'll have we'll have to do
the you know after pass the note around
before the make sure that you'll get the
memo yeah send out those emails
everybody get your phantom of the opera'
shirts ready because I love you staying
at home today the high BP 9 hi Peter hi
Doug and Ron more is that Doug you keep
changing your name so I say like I can
call you by your alias or I can call you
by your your name whichever is more
comfortable for you I guess people have
made the connection now that you're
Lance man 63 I guess that's that you
know know people know who you are now
yeah I just read what's on the screen so
it's okay but hey guys yeah so what am i
working on my wife Becca is an author
and she is she's working in the genre of
folklore and paranormal like lore in
Canadian history so it's really quite
interesting because you get you know
she's taking folklore and turning them
into really exciting kind of interesting
short stories so so we're working this
weekend we're working on a new YouTube
so we're going to be kicking that off
pretty soon
I can I can secretly access to it ahead
of time if you want it if anybody's into
that kind of thing but we're just
building up the YouTube channel getting
everything ready for that so it'll be
like what else basically short audio
books kind of cool unless
I'm into more science fiction yeah yeah
there's a series of books that that I
haven't have not found thee texts or yet
called it there's a whole series of
books related to ham radio and realistic
use of NPR in books so what I need to do
is I need to recommend today that we
need we need to find a ghost story that
has to do with ham radio sure we cross
over the genres sure why not
whatever works for you that's for I are
you saying she's writing these books or
you saying keep making these youtubes it
will be an anthology but they're short
short stories detailing these paranormal
folklore stories right that have been
passed down from generation to
generation in Canadian history so
whether they're new or based on true
stories you don't know I'm curious about
the process of of authoring these books
issue publish things no not yet because
it will be when there's we're just
figuring out when the first volume will
come out so it will be available in
paperback but that will be after like
the first maybe twelve or fifteen of
them have been released and then and
then a volume will come out that you can
read in a paperback if you know for
those who prefer that so so it's kind of
multi I mean these days everything is
right it's kind of multi media I know
that the word in and of itself but
you're looking at you can read them on a
blog you can read them on Wattpad like
kind of like ebooks you can you can
watch the videos on YouTube that is
really kind of neat because it
supplements because you see pictures
that have to do with what's what's being
told right so this is so publishing
those books well we own a publishing
house so yeah essentially
self-publishing but yeah where were you
know the chemical serene
yeah really we were registered with the
Canadian Library Archives of Canada so
mm-hmm she's really several bucks and
she's in libraries and we've done you
know book visited like visits where you
know we you know I should be uh there's
more to you than we thought no more like
just we're capable of making it so that
she has a printed copy of her book so do
you do you literally own or control at
least do you know any stuff how does
that no no we use third parties the
publishing house itself is is simply an
entity with the Canadian government so
so we're we're registered with the
Library Archives of Canada
we're recognized as publishing what
what's called a publishing house so we
we can publish books that become part of
the Library Archives so but no our
printing we we have a local printer that
does all our manuscripts we have
particular printers that we work with to
do the paperback and everything else so
so I'm curious about the technical
aspect of it can we talk about that a
little bit here so when Becca writes a
manuscript what does she typically use
what typically she'll what use word or
something or one LibreOffice writer
okay okay the equivalent of word the
equivalent of word yet yes
is is that what the what I mean that's
got to be converted somehow from writer
to some other format right before a king
ban yeah usually linking hell of a
library yeah that's right once once
she's finished writing then it goes to
the editors in a manuscript form so
printed literally once printed printed
and bound yeah okay it in bound usually
like a spiral binding so then that goes
to the editors now we have done one of
her novels we just did a print where I
no I think we always bind it I think
we've received books that were just
loose print like you'd like the pages
were numbered but we've never done that
we always find it so anyways that that's
locally done and then once the editing
is done it's all done in libreoffice
then I put together the formatted PDF
file also in libreoffice so and then
send it off to the printers we usually
start with a couple of like a small run
just to make sure that the formatting
comes out okay
I designed the book covers as well yeah
and I use the GIMP for that mm-hmm so
yeah it's kind of neat so the printer
expects of PDF thing in order to try to
find that I find that's the easiest way
to get it from LibreOffice to the
printing house in a format that I feel
confident is going to come out well in
print because I can tag the PDF so that
it because what we we had had happen
once was in the early days when you send
like a if it's a docx or something like
that or a postscript file if they don't
if they don't have the right font
installed then it can come out wonky so
with PDF I can tag the font include
drawn files okay so that's that's why I
do that it just makes it easier for me
so so I don't use writer you know I
don't use proprietary document formats
we've talked about this before it's
still binary is it not
no Dex I know is it okay alright that's
worth okay one of the things I what I
was going to say was that one of the
tools that I used primarily because it
is text only so that's why I was curious
about OTT
it sounds a lot like doc book by the way
and it and doc book was a real pain in
the butt too
in it you know if you're trying to edit
the XML directly that's just ugly oh
yeah I guess you're right you could take
writer and you could convert it to OTT
couldn't you and say that that's the
default format right okay okay
maybe I do look at that but it's
compressed files to CPU then you can
unzip it and you can yeah okay okay that
was gonna be my next comment yeah just
take the ODT file rename it dot zip and
then also necklace with file roller or
whatever and see all the file and the
reason they do that is you've got the
XML but then if you've embedded any
images or fonts or anything like that
shreds are included in the zip file okay
okay and ODT isn't is an open document
standard correct yeah I'm sorry but
Microsoft Word doesn't do it though
right and will
oh yeah well writer will work with any
like you can open Microsoft Word fine
just and then convert ODT to make it an
open format but I I think Microsoft is
starting to get in to the bandwagon of
realizing that they need to be able to
open yes they can they can use it but
you have to tell it to use the new
format yeah yeah I think it but they
will ask you to do that much better
yeah as funny as that is if you open an
excel at an Excel spreadsheet like an
XLS file in LibreOffice it will prompt
you when you go to save are you sure you
want to save in this obsolete format we
can save it in an open format
Microsoft Microsoft are very very good
at importing all kinds of different
formats but exporting is not something
great like to do they were rather you
imported into their proprietary format
and then you're locked in in my first
few years of using having those I use
the word pad was scaled down and when I
pray from
I think it was windows 95 and till Venus
98 the new WordPad did not read the
older word pad pad files no I tried to
open the this first music video we could
actually a million without a good date I
thought that I couldn't make it for me
with really happy I could change
anything different
I'm just gonna I'm just gonna say Peter
Peter you bought a new a new webcam I
want you to go through your audio
settings and make sure you've selected
the new webcam as your audio source as
well because I can't make you out at all
it sounds like you're talking into into
a tin can summer is that PDF is the
better choice for exchange or only only
only if it's the end result like if
you're not ripping if you want to keep
if you ensure that it looks the same
everywhere else let me put it this way
it it's like so a PDF to an open
document format is to is the same as say
JPEG commit to a xcf file in GIMP right
so the xcf file contains all my layers
and I can change things and everything
but when I'm ready to send it to
somebody I'm going to save it as a JPEG
so that they can open it and it looks
exactly how it should but if I send them
the Excel or the xcf file they may not
have the same fonts or they may have
different a different version of the
program so things might get a little bit
garbled but as long as I still have that
original
xdf file I can all
go back and make changes so PDF is like
that where like it's like fine for
sending to somebody or I use it to send
it to the printer but I would never like
always hold on to your original document
otherwise in your PDF it is like that's
like a it's like a printout let's look
at it that way you know you can't go
back and change it the same Peter change
your microphone settings okay to say
okay and remove it you need to you need
to figure out your microphone situation
because if we're trying to carry a
conversation and we can't make you out
we're doing it like we want to be polite
and be like okay let them speak but we
can't understand the word you're saying
and it's not it's not the it's not your
throat it's the microphone it there's
something it's really really bad quality
so so I think that's the next thing that
is using yes turn his head down maybe is
covering the yeah it does I hear it
wrestling when you move it so maybe it
is just a poor microphone but you can do
what I did which is get a headset which
helps it doesn't sound perfect but at
least if I move around you can still
hear me just as well over here is over
here right Toyo usual so you know you
see Peter a lot of us are wearing
headsets I think that would maybe be a
better way to do it it would bring the
microphone closer to his mouth too
yeah but I really don't I don't want
camera driving the crap out of that
microphone
oh yes so can you get can you get
something see bp9 has a pair of
headphones where the microphone is
actually in the cable so you see that
that would be nice and close to your
next so that
or boom microphone likes all booing me
yeah oh yeah you three what soldiers can
do that's pretty cool yeah this one's
home very cool
oh oh there you go he has one don't set
it up now though come on the coffee
break and yeah maybe tomorrow yeah
what do you think about zoom working out
of Boone to like does it yeah should do
yeah I think I think I'm excited about
switching from Windows to a vote too
because every time I disconnect my HDMI
to plug in my USB headset that I'm
wearing right now and then I plugged
back into HDMI I don't get my HDMI back
sure but I don't get sound oh oh do you
select do you collect in the audio
setting like when I'm yeah I go back and
select I can go back and select the HDMI
audio but it doesn't change anything
it still doesn't work way oh good work
anyway but you said apples audio for my
Linux I think well then all they I mean
and there and there you can choose where
the audio you can choose that
voilá audio goes out to your HDMI except
for the microphone input oh that's cool
yeah so you can hear you can choose
where everything goes so you're using a
bow - oh well nobody thank you see I'm
not using I'm using an RPM based using
Paul Vario pas Vario is included in a
gun - okay okay so so it'll be the same
setup yeah
okay I also think that in your case the
audio and the routing of the audio is a
better on winter than in Windows and
it's and it'll stay the same no matter
if you unplug and replug them the
outputs will state will still stay
steady so that knife yeah none of them
Windows does is every time you change
anything as far as your audio setup or
if I turn on the CD suddenly boom all my
audio from the computer is being piped
to the HDMI and it's like snob just let
me do that by default but you can change
where or so and if you change it then it
will stay the same so I have a laptop
and I have the HDMI and so on but if I
unplug the HDMI the sounder really works
back to they have the ability in their
speakers so right okay give it a try and
report back Lance man yeah but as far as
zoom goes like I have it working fine on
on my Linux Mint machine at the office
which I believe is still based on Ubuntu
is or not so I think yeah I think it
should should be like that should
represent that yeah you should have no
trouble at all me and to Zane and boom
to descendant I have one computer of
pure work running oh boo - I'm sorry
running mint we're doing okay we'll try
it on that see if it's any better
doesn't have a webcam I had I had no
trouble getting zoom running on my band
to set up but my webcam was no good
literally the light came on on the
webcam but there was no image coming
through the first couple of that yeah
the first couple of as coffee breaks you
saw that you heard my voice but you
never did see any image even though the
lights were on
so what are you running out of windows
No
I'm running it on a spear Android phone
so I don't get to do the nice
backgrounds and stuff that you go play
with never I'm just laying it on the
phone if ever I have that happened where
it's just a black screen I've found what
it is is that for some reason when I
plugged in my webcam some program has
started using us okay because only one
program can use the webcam at a time so
if something grabs hold of that webcam
and then you open zoom zoom won't see
anything because the other program has
already grabbed controls all right well
the light came on when zoom started you
know when I tried to yeah yeah yeah and
I was also able to take photos with that
camera I was able to make I think I
don't know what was deep or something
else
I was actually I'm gonna make something
take a take an image through that camera
so I know the camera works I'd is it
possible is it possible that zoom I'm
sorry that boon to didn't support that
camera for video only for big profits
certainly possible
yeah there's anything's possible
although I'd like to I believe it was
working at some point we have to
remember to I'm running an old version
of Ubuntu I'm running sixteen point oh
four LTS so it's for me to at least
upgrade to 1804 because you might ride
me have all packages or library yeah I
tried to compile the point time app that
I'm using to help me understand how the
point home works and it refused to even
configure because it said your version
of some package is too old it needs to
be at least this version and it won't
even compile so I'm sure like buy on the
Raspberry Pi reminds me of a video right
black
Jacque something someone didn't do what
they were supposed to have me a black
other said there the eyes are open the
mouth smooth but mr. brain has nothing
life's lights are on but nobody's home
that's the way it works my webcam on my
Linux Mint machine is a c920 so if that
I don't know if that means anything to
you but it worked perfectly as soon as I
plugged it in it just worked well I got
a ride with the Microsoft LifeCam studio
as well and it works flawlessly
- I can't even see it now but mine is an
old webcam that I probably just need to
go buy another one
it's a Logitech Logitech PE a 750 or
something oh yeah yeah so can anybody
tell me if zoom is in the software
Center download it from their website
and I would actually not I would
actually not download the package I
think it has dependencies that again my
old version of Ubuntu did not satisfy so
when I did down what I told them on the
website when they did the download is
other Avelina yes what you get is a tar
file then you just untie that tar file
and have a directory that has everything
you need and it worked you didn't even
have to compile it no it was already bad
this could be why your webcam wasn't
working compile him it didn't bite it
didn't compile in the drivers for the
old webcam yeah I don't think it uses
video prevent it just relies on I think
it just relies on the system for the
video maybe oh I'm happy to admit I'm
happy to admit my
my distro is is old enough it's four
years old now
but I'm too nervous to jump straight to
2004 because I just don't think it's
stable enough yet
I know yeah it's quite there yet so I've
never had good luck installing tar files
I can unset them extracted what do I do
with it
you should have an executable right
inside there and you can just execute
but there's one file that you need to
run from the terminal we need to what I
use anyway it's called assumed it's H ok
zoom deck OS shell but by contrast ugh I
on the other hand did download the Deb
file so I chose Linux Mint from the
drop-down and downloaded the file and I
just ran it which opened dpkg and asked
me you get the button that says install
so I pushed that now I just have to
start zoom on my menu so I also think
that you might oh yeah that's good
I'm sure that would have worked if I'd
had a lighter version a later version
yeah I think my problem is if I've got
an old version of the destroy and my
next step is going to be to just go
hidden and upgrade it so I I found my
two terabyte drive that came with the
machine that had Windows 10 on it
installing Ubuntu and I'll test it and
the coffee break on Sunday okay I'm good
I'm gonna go ahead and do boot that to
terabyte drive and and just don't go for
there I think is after this coffee break
I'm going downtown to buy a I think I'm
buying too
to tell about their drives my main
system had a hard freeze today and I
used half an hour to nothing was done
but I had to manually run and if it's a
check on the home and I just a little
time on during each before it ended I
saw a few machine is 8 years old so it's
a it's a time to so I'm putting in a
stage it's a it's a money and I need
storage very good glad to hear you'll
get some redundancy my final thought for
today vp9 and the rest of you I finally
sort of watched how long it takes to run
my backup remember I was talking about
that 10 terabyte device and as I pulled
the drive hold the drive on Saturday
morning and switched it and came back
Sunday late morning and it was at 40%
yes reimaging so it obably takes like
two and a half days to reimage that 10
terabyte drive never right whenever I
back up my
Synology box there's about 8 terabytes
of available storage and I'm backing it
up to a 10 terabyte hard drive and it
takes it takes a day
[Music]
actual adjectives that's 36 had to do
run care about home Amish a Windows
machine that's what my daughter 36 hours
her bond terabyte I'm terrific
no that's no menagerie the phone line
that's not adventurous over as well
might be so because it's over
maybe I don't know to me I were trying
to say the PDF windows that people can
change your raw your contacts you also
because every media because they're only
weighed only the way we document our the
people could change it well that's
that's kind of the point of yeah why we
why we wouldn't leave those as our main
file yeah
can be edited like you can buy nitro PDF
or Adobe Acrobat but if it never the
same is working with the original source
documents so you want to hold onto those
and I also just say yes you have never
been so clear and so it has never been
easier to understand what you're saying
then after you've got this microphone so
this is a huge in thank you very much
bloody will just be shame all this time
we thought it was Peters neck hole but
it was actually his microphone on that
turn on that automatic volume control so
that you're not so loud and that'll
probably make things a little better for
tomorrow time that's all the time that
we have for today guys
so we'll see it tomorrow good to see you
