we have a $30 u.s. dashcam mm-hmm I want
to take a look at this now Jeff you have
a dashcam Sasha presently does not right
tell us a little bit about what made you
get a dashcam so I mean I commute all
the time for work
yeah and in some some days I could be
going 700 kilometers in a day like he
was gonna say 700 kilometers an hour
no I wouldn't put it past my car went
that fast I'd consider yeah no but so in
my time driving back and forth to the
big city I have been in four car
accidents oh yeah and thankfully three
were not my fault
one was weather-related and just I
continued to slide making a guy in a car
yeah and thankfully is one of those like
good clarification you get out and
you're like I don't see any damage he's
like I don't see any damage and we're
good to go
he's good I've had to write offs and in
both cases I'm like I wish I had a dash
cam because right I can show that I I
was sitting at the light not moving the
radio is not on I'm not on my phone like
if you have a dash cam you are basically
a super spy just come on automatically
yes you don't have to think my car
starts off I'm gonna turn you on no soon
as I turn my car up it's on its going
and so in the one accident that I did
have where I had the dash cam yeah it
happened to be that every 10 minutes it
because it records to an SD card yes it
will stop and then start a new recording
and is there a three-second gap the
accident took place in the middle of
that gap no it's like you see is driving
and then the video comes on and I've
been hit I was like you gotta be kidding
me
so oh that seems suspicious when you
show that video type I was the one oh
that part just disappeared
but for a camera that's 200 bucks I
would have thought I would do a little
bit better okay
in her box and that was about the
cheapest we could find and that's on
sale as a Christmas special
all right well pathing I'm gonna try to
get the name right pathing lek has
brought at a 1080p dash cam that is
available for only $30 us about well $45
here in Canada our art currency yep
and you can get one at camp five dot TV
/ - camp or at least check it out and
even compare to Jeff's and I have
compared because you actually talked
about it previously on the show that you
got and so I kind of compared feature to
feature and some of the things that I
love about your dash cam are in the 30 -
cam yeah things like wide dynamic range
yes so for example it's getting a little
bit dark out it's not quite dark enough
for the infrared to come on because it
has infrared as well yeah it's not quite
dark enough but the wide dynamic range
brings up the levels and the the color
saturation so that you have clearer
video at dusk and rendang right so so it
does all that now they also I have a bit
of a discrepancy because on their Amazon
profile it says that they have a three
year warranty and then below it says
there's a one-year warranty and
sometimes you see this when information
has been copied and pasted right by
whoever's creating the profile and
unfortunately they missed that I'm not
too sure whether it's a three year or a
one-year warranty but let's consider the
price at $30 u.s. even if it's only a
one-year warranty that's pretty good
why wasn't one here and what they what
they say right on the profile and this
is reiterated is that they have promised
of 24-hour resolution so if you Wow it's
a resolution of your problem so if you
have a problem with this webcam even
though it's so cheap as far as the price
goes - Kay - cam pardon me thank you
they will resolve it within 24 hours
presumably if it's broken they'll send
you a new one that there's a problem
they'll walk you through how to fix it
those kinds of things so the warranty is
there as well
it has a three inch IPS display do you
want me to actually like get into the
box
yeah and I'll tell these things yeah
okay I'm gonna jump over here and let's
actually open this thing up right I'm
excited because if this works I'm
totally getting it for my wife's car she
just picked up her new car today
there you go she was in an accident a
couple weeks ago oh and that would be
perfect I'm Way over here I'm gonna I'm
gonna switch cameras here so that we can
see the box and I'm gonna pop into this
so a couple of quick mentions about the
specs it does have a three inch IPS
display Jeff another thing that it has
similar to yours is a hundred and
seventy degree field of view yes that is
nice it's really wide we're gonna see
that a little later in the show here we
go so there it is folks the lens looks
honkin huge it looks like they made it
look like a DSLR now that lens is
actually just the dot in the middle and
it's like a plastic housing to make it
look more substantive than it is but I
mean it does look reasonable now you see
that LED light there on the left-hand
side yeah of your screen that's for the
infrared as well it does have an
infrared sensor and it's able to pick up
night vision which obviously we're not
gonna be able to test today because it's
super bright out
we've got tactile switches buttons to be
able to control the various settings and
they feel pretty good see if I can power
it on
looks like it's well flash there for me
let's try again
there it comes blue light there we go
pathing tech and there we are we've got
like camera inception here okay so I
mean it looks okay
it looks just fine I mean it's a
affordable little camera but let's see
what else that comes with that do you
know what the battery life is I don't
yet but Sasha's gonna let us know in a
week's time that she's gonna be using it
okay okay so we've got the suction mount
pretty typical suction clip that goes on
here and then secures to the windshield
it's got the switch so it actually pulls
back on the suction cup and give it a
good seal to the window so it's not
gonna fall off we've also got what looks
like a permanent mount so if you're
really happy with it or you don't want
it to be movable from one car to the
other you can actually stick it on to
the that would also let you stick it on
the dash to not the window then we've
got the USB a-looking cable oh and okay
so not even just USB we've also got a
plug that goes into your lighter
oh and has the USB to power it so that's
good okay
and it's got it looks like it's got a
good long cable we've got another 3m
double-sided sticker information about
the type of glass card that you're gonna
want to use class 10 up to 32 gigabytes
and it's micro SD and then we've got an
English manual and a French manual as
well here in Canada
all right there we are that's all there
is to it let's try to fire it up and see
whether we can not sure if it came with
a charge or not
Sasha I've got I noticed there it says
February 5th or something like that
we'll fix the date they're in the
commercial break before we mount it in
your car or before you do
February 25th there we go so let's jump
into the menus here navigation feels
really solid it doesn't feel Jackie at
all oh we've got a G sensor so that
means if you get in an accident yeah it
will actually lock the files so
automatically so it has loop looping
recording so as you approach the limit
of the capacity of your card it will
automatically re recycle the space so
it'll record over the oldest videos okay
but having that G sensor oh and I'm
gonna put in the 16 gig Kingston class
10 having that G sensor means that when
you get in a collision if you do it's
actually going to lock those files
because of the movement it's going to
detect the collision and so that way it
will not record over them if it loops
that's so it just gives you that added
protection so that you're not going to
lose your files yeah it looks really
really good so I mentioned the G sensor
and it does have 24-hour loop recording
and it has a parking mode so you have to
set this it doesn't automatically set
itself to parking mode but let's say you
park it I've had this happen where I've
gone taking the kids to a birthday party
and I parked it on this I parked my
vehicle on the street and somebody
backed into my vehicle and we were in
the party we didn't know we came out and
somebody had hit and run yeah so in
parking mode what it does is it puts the
camera into like a suspend state a sleep
state right it's not using a lot of
battery power and your car's not
powering it so it has a built-in battery
to keep going and in parking mode if it
senses any motion like if it sees any
any movement it will start recording so
as a car is starting to approach your
parked car all of a sudden your camera
comes
the life in it records so then if you
came out and you say Oh somebody hit my
car
dashcam if it was in Park mode we'll
have hopefully captured that if it's
pointed you can adjust that like the
angle of the camera and do that
according that how that cuz I think that
is kind of a premium feature mm-hmm for
something at this price point we do have
to take a really quick break I'm going
to set the clock on that I'm gonna plug
it into the the charger real quick and
when we come back you're gonna have the
opportunity to try that camera out stick
around
[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV now before the break we
unboxed and quickly had a look at this
$30.00
dash cam and this comes to us from
having let pathing lick having touch
pathing tech why is it is it spelled
wrong on the site I think it is but all
the thing it looks like it looked like
it looked like a t didn't it yeah yeah I
think Amazon has it wrong oh so that is
why I'm stumbling on it having tech that
makes a lot more sense
yeah either way 30 bucks either way if
you go to cap 5 dot TV / - cam all one
word that's gonna actually take you to
it and you're gonna be able to just
compare that with with the dash cams
that are costing a lot more saying
before the break that it seems like some
of the features of this camera are quite
premium for the price tag yes of our
future is that even like ever does
enough oh well see technology progresses
prices come down and here we are in 2019
this looks like a pretty decent little
rig yeah when you mentioned the G sensor
that right there yeah did it for me cuz
from my car they want to have in my car
it's a manual button so if I get an
accident I phone the button know which
doesn't help if I get sucked and I'm
knocked out Oh cuz then the loop goes
it's like oh whoops we lost the video
darn
so it's a manual button for mine so I
love that that is automatic
alright it was not the parka few we're
not going to get into a collision
tonight so we're not gonna actually get
to experience the g-shock feature
however I am gonna switch over to a
video that we recorded just before the
show so this is Sasha just before the
show tonight and I'll let you kind of
explain what's going through your head
the suction thingy yeah which was super
easy has a little clip that's that's
great then the actual the actual dashcam
itself just slides right on to that a
holder so super simple a sash I don't I
just mean like it's it's an easy install
it's not like you it's not rocket
science to do this like it's just a
simple thing but for the price I'm eager
to see how it performs okay so you're
plugging it in directly yes the USB yeah
I should have looked at it before I
should have well while we're seeing this
just to clarify marsh man let us know it
is pathing lek having lek okay so there
we have it this is how it should be done
there you go
alright so it's plugged it I love the
head nod there we go now do you think
that there's enough length there Sasha
that you could drape I know you're just
gonna drape this down to the to the
lighter socket but could you like put
this around
certainly I could okay oh no you just
started the car yeah and it just fired
up and started recording which is
awesome that light turned red okay so it
turns out automatically when it senses
power from the vehicle that was a video
album yeah cool that's pretty good okay
car looks nice and shiny Sasha well done
thanks let's let's get some dash cam
video and see how this thing performs so
just a quick little jaunt around variant
look at that
I love the the wide-angle view it's it's
clean so if you had a car coming up on
either side just consider as you look at
these roads it's not you're not gonna
have any trouble seeing a car coming
from the side no does the dash cam have
a microphone on it to record what's
happening in the car mm-hmm it does in
fact we can hear that a little bit in
the background right now I know you
don't have a headset so you can't hear
it but I can okay I did pick like the
bumpiest you really did like let's find
the industrial zone of Barry where
there's all the potholes and railroad
tracks but that's okay because I mean it
even shows you how it performs on a
bumpy road right I'm thinking that Geoff
because I did try to do some handheld
shots too you know just some b-roll for
the for this and it was very bumpy and
as I'm watching this it's really smooth
yeah like very smooth
I was blown away that's great and the
colors are great like it's a
good-looking video so this is out of the
box settings like you didn't have to
adjust anything I mean other than the
date yeah that's all I did was set the
date and time at the bottom left there
so you can see exactly when we actually
recorded this just a couple hours ago
otherwise there's a no notice settings
were changed Jeff look at that yeah well
hey it looks great folks what do you
think for a $30.00 dashcam Sasha will
you report back in a week's time and let
us know what you think of this I
certainly well this is amazing oh and I
want you to try that parking mode too
and just see how that functions this
dance around in front of the camera and
see if it starts recording all of a
sudden that'll be my ideal like having
that parking mode for the work I do I
want to have my car you know yeah
watching what's going on when I'm not in
it well that looks great so folks this
is you know it's pretty Drive video but
this shows the quality of this now a
little bit of specifications for you it
is 1080p I did mention that but so we're
looking at a 1920 by 1080 resolution so
high enough that as you can see it's
crystal clear but you you could even
take stills from this and they're gonna
be pretty good pretty good quality for
sure wow I'm actually pretty impressed
with this Jeff your your camera is you
mentioned it was 200 bucks yeah and have
you like you have any comparison like
any visual from a video standpoint I
would say pretty similar I would
actually say this is better I think
mine's a 720 okay now there was that
there was that what a was that part of
the loop
that may have been the loop Jeff oh my
goodness he might actually disappears
for the loop oh wow
oh that's awesome yeah this I had this
on yeah he saw that it was loop
recording so and we just stuck a
kingston SD card micro SD class 10 in
there and seems to work just flawlessly
like we haven't had to monkey with it or
anything exactly like it's just just
works yeah no I think that was a better
video feed than my camera Wow
so yeah I'd say thirty dollars for the
win well done Sasha we got the thumbs up
yeah so what do y'all think cat five dot
TV / - cam for the thirty dollar dash
cam and I'm working my way around yes
that's insane
oh it's a really great camera for that
price yeah blowing my mind well I mean
at that price you can get one for the
front and the back yeah that's like your
back window so that you're always film
that's a really great idea we could you
could put one in each of the corners and
do carpool karaoke you know what I'm
saying
Abby do you tell your insurance company
that you have a dashcam I did and did
that impact your premium at all not at
all
no I know like when we install
surveillance cameras and things our
house insurance but it yeah for my car
okay yeah that's interesting no that's
another thought yeah I know that your
car has been broken into in the driveway
so yeah having something like that work
oh my goodness yeah that guy oh good
okay so you know that's another thought
is it could be used with the parking
mode it's gonna pick up motion now what
it pick up the sound of a smashing
window it doesn't pick up scent it hears
the sound but no it's motion activated
in parking mode or if the car is running
it's just it's recording all the time
and loop mode okay so there's no there's
like a seamless recording all the time
while you're driving now if they added
that feature and saved it a firmware
update that you can update through the
Nestea we're like it picks up on the
smash that would be a photo
future that's like that's mind-bendingly
crazy for a cheap camera although I
think about likewise I mean I'm not
saying that we're not saying that they
are going to do that with this camera
but likewise cams are an example of like
a camera that is constantly being
upgraded and updated and becoming better
and better in their only 30 bucks and
it's like holy cow how are they doing
this for so cheap and but this one as it
is right out of the box I'm impressed I
was good I mean that's pretty awesome
check it out cam 5 TV / - cam have you
got a dash cam and if you ever had an
accident where you're not at fault and
that was helpful for you when it came to
- like talking to the police or your
insurance company anything like that you
might be able to go to the accident
reporting because you they ask you for a
description of the actual accident yeah
this is my description yep yeah here you
go so just show them on with this also I
should mention one final thought you can
switch modes to playback and you can
actually play back the video on this the
3-inch screen right so if you had an
accident and the police were there you
could say look here you go there's what
happened this would also be good for
like incredibly picturesque roads true
right there I mean here we have
beautiful windy roads with great scenery
not not necessarily the ones that we
went Barry yeah if you drive 20 minutes
in any direction it's gorgeous and you
could I mean because it's got the
suction cup and it does have the battery
you could put it even on like the hood
of your car for you're just full of
ideas and gimmicks Jeff don't do what he
says I'd be so afraid of it flying off
and hitting someone and hurting them
Jeff hurting them if you're going down a
country road the likelihood of it I mean
other than hitting a cow don't do it
leave it inside just for the review no
don't do it don't do it that's what like
if you're gonna do that you need to have
yeah like we have for example if we were
shooting that type of video oh we have
something like this
right it has multiple suction cups and
that's going to work yeah that's exactly
what you need so keep that in mind don't
listen to Jeff
