welcome to the coffee break everybody it
is the 12th of July 2020 nice to see you
nice to have you here so far I see Sol
boo hey Sol boo
I give us a wave a I see Peter oh well I
don't see Peter I could no I can't you
don't have a camera oh here comes vp9
hey bp9 nice to see you guys no no I
can't see you now just a brief yes I see
see your tried and then the camera but
it I just realized my quote-unquote
coffee break this week is unfortunately
brought to us by Pepsi myself so I'm
here at the studio today still get
something set up but Wow
oh it's been intense guys been intense
it's been crazy busy and literally just
wrapped up one thing I'm not even done
and on to the coffee break I'm forcing
myself to actually take a break so I
think that's probably good idea told you
anything new with you no I mean just
thing staying at home playing a little
of your games and I just finished the
eating dinner I had the pasta and Jeff
no I mean meatballs
oh yeah what time it is there six pm
where you are and it's 12 o'clock noon
here just north of Toronto in Barry so
no I guess we're at that point now where
I mean if things of you know the whole
thing has been going on for way too long
in a lot of ways like what do you been
up to
Oh same thing yeah Tia now Peter yeah
hey buddy vp9 how about you anything
exploded this week good morning
eight sleep code eight sleep code yeah
won't wash rinse repeat
yeah I like having Pro Jack say like and
just having a project on the go is just
really helpful
unfortunately I've not made any progress
on the on the pine time yeah it's it's
still it however it does charge that's
that's the good news right nothing no
even though it it makes no makes no no
doesn't do anything so basically it's a
battery right now well yes the
multimeter just right you can see that
there's bolted there the the programming
tables which includes 3.3 volts it will
actually start up there a spy so it'll
quite happily drive there right yeah are
you kidding absolutely it won't run up
for very long because the batteries not
that big but it'll it'll crank up that
rust-free wow I didn't realize agree
that you can see the green lights
blinking and although I didn't that it
goes through the whole boot cycle so
yeah that way at least I know the
batteries charging even if nothing else
that's good yeah I've been working on an
application that that I've always been
bothered by sinking you know
applications that sink you know when you
when you have to keep data in seat
between a client and a server your
choices are your client has to talk to
the server in real-time which means
you've got to have a connection back to
your main main machine all the time
which bothers me because because you
can't always what are you typing this
are boo I hear you
yeah - I wanted to know how she could
join and I see marsh man has also
appeared here as well and Sasha Rickman
there good to see you I'm hanging
clothes on the line I just wear an apron
I am taking a break I'm taking a break
from that because I feel like it's I'd
rather focus on you than my laundry it
is it's actually it's like 18 degrees
here which is I don't know what that is
in Fahrenheit well that's a hate way for
you no sleep yeah it's a heat wave I
think all around this planet right now
yeah hey Bill hello there he is all
right oh my god I've got to ask a bet
that you ain't oh and I'm sorry I don't
get the joke I'm sorry you guys man
figure it out pronounce it one word oh I
figured I figured the UN or something
but it is what it is or I don't know
pronounce it as one word you Reno in I
still don't get it
sorry come on Sasha saw matter how it's
gone what's that what's my name on the
screen on the screen what's it say on
the screen
anybody watching this on-demand is
clueless to it wow I can't oh my
goodness a real kicker this out okay you
work on that Peter power successful
passage I think somebody able to that
come Judy down lovely well how would you
show me oh you can actually see it from
your window oh okay well see if you can
see if you can hook this up without too
much damn noise today yes I didn't know
he was mobile all the time I thought
that camera was there's some little
thing sitting on something Illustrated
yeah yeah I don't know if you oh yeah I
can see the base but the Sun is so
bright that it kind of cuts off the the
tower but we know that What did he say
60 meters Peter wedding 20 meters okay
that's still that's huge I haven't Peter
but but we've seen it now that's great
so what do you ask you man little bit of
everything I really can't figure out
your name
thank you I'm not the only one I have
found a few
it's on on the Google a singer or a band
or a song and there is a facebook face
of some kind no I'm sure but I just
added the joke so it was unknown mind a
little come on it's like it's like bunny
versus butter right I mean there's no
there's no there's an old old movie
called Ten Little Indians based on an
Agatha Christie novel and he every the
characters were brought to an island
island by a mister you and Owen and he
never shows up and they die one by one
by one now we know that's what you've
been up to
you're doing laundry today your laundry
you have to make hay when the Sun shines
you know right here sorry but it does
there's eight there's eight days of
summer come on now five of them already
[Laughter]
yesterday yeah exactly yesterday before
I had to go to work I went on a hike and
I am still blown away by how amazing
this place is where where we went so
Dave's friends came with us and we
stayed socially distance but we drove
the separate cars but we only drove 30
minutes and where we went they had never
been before and they've both lived here
for 45 years
really like it's so undiscovered here
it's incredible I love it I don't
other than that I've been working here
step the proofs they all saying that no
one is a tourist I tried turning my
phone sideways so I could see who was on
camera but I've got a gimbal that's true
Sasha how do you how do you feel about
the tech situation out there it's pretty
old-school
I'll tell ya it's it's actually very
crazy how little tech there is in
general but also just available like I'm
on the best internet available which is
I think the speed is like 6 and it's not
it's not good yeah so for example I know
that doing this video call will use up
all of the six things you have a limited
amount of usage per month is that what
you're saying no it's just the speed the
speed is okay firstly you're maxing it
out with this right yeah so David is
right now not using the internet like he
has to turn everything he has and I just
have the phone on the Wi-Fi and Internet
connection speeds that I have before
moving to this house and you moved into
interior oh my son ok well at least
somebody is benefit
what state of that left virtual reality
in for you well if I were to be
completely honest right now we're not
near even testing virtual reality and
I'm really hoping it doesn't suffer
we're still in house repairs so really
the lack of tech hasn't been super
oppressive because we're not focused on
it yet but just you wait if I cannot
shoot zombies I'm going to be pretty
upset it'll stutter and I'll be able to
like aim like jerky across the screen
yeah yeah if y'all do go to the website
all the way it will work some of the
trouble a journey to go grab was
appointed I'm going to go anywhere on
the page is anyone able to make Peter I
[Music]
play two pages going now but the the yet
doubt the boyhood don't know look going
around on the on the books but life is
electrical promote asleep I got the
rotator hang on he doesn't know the
rotator you know at the top of the mast
moves in different direction so signal
this is motorized and everything's great
yeah but if there's an electrical
problem that means the rotator is up on
the top of the mast
getting up on the tower again no no no
the rotation is rotating but the box of
God will endure the problem and it
doesn't and it doesn't show moving
around somewhere the problem is doesn't
I think it in Hawaii badly
what happens after the flower and they
put them in the box and they're likely
one are we going with this Peter where
are we going with this we're done with
it he's just describing the problem now
somehow this reminds me of a problem we
just had with our satellite TV and I'll
give you a quick rundown of how
hilarious it is only because I heard the
road rotator we put a post in to put the
satellite on for our satellite TV and
did I say how we had it like five days
of summer already
during during our heatwave the the post
that we we hooked the satellite to dried
out and twisted and so our satellite
like went kaput but we didn't realize
what the problem was and then and then
because I'm on call for work for Seoul
like for so many days in a row before I
know for sure I have time off I couldn't
call the tech in so it had actually
rotated and twisted so much like it was
dramatically off but my guess though can
I just that did you make the pepper did
you make the pole out of butter it dried
it dried out so the dry the wood dried
finally the wood here in Newfoundland
generally wouldn't dry that faster
dramatically because there's not usually
like two
days in a row of hot water you put the
satellite dish on a wooden pole yes we
can't stop working and that BT and said
that they got working I could use me
Wi-Fi anywhere just everybody worry
about the Xbox was talking my window but
they are to be they gonna give me a 4G
connection I said don't worry about it I
said it what working in fridge
they were about to jail think now that
won't work
what about loans that don't work like
that they did nothing in his very good
works properly
could we get never doing take unitl
forgery doesn't work as a demo demo
which was a local Broadway if it doesn't
work sorry
it starts to feel like a scene from a
horror movie
no it's the same from Monty Python is
what it is you got the dog barking in
the background I can't make you out
Oh dear me Sasha what was the solution
so are you back up and running with your
satellite back up and running we got
that we got the guy in and he just moved
the satellite and said that if we have
more dry weather perhaps you could drive
further and just to give him a call he
said don't go through bail anymore
because they'll charge us and he just
lives down the road so he's just gonna
keep tweaking the satellite every time
we have a crazy weather day oK you've
got to mount this out in the yard could
you not like is there nothing on the
house that would be more solid that you
can you know what the problem was
mounting anything to the house is that
the winds here are extreme so there's a
real chance of doing damage to the house
if you mount anything
I got you so yeah
what is your roof made of so yeah it had
some shingles on its shingles but you
know how in like regular climates they
just like nail the shingles to tar paper
or whatever here they have to paint the
tar on each individual thing like they
glue it down and nail it roof or
something would do it better would be a
better option it would be better but
could you imagine if that the wind
caught underneath in what are you
telling me something maybe one thing
Michael is like Robin either the wind up
there as well go for slate then oh no no
no he was talking about the pole for the
antenna and we're talking about the roof
in the car we've moved on Peter it's all
solved now I will say that I read a new
story today that Newfoundland is getting
electric charging stations for electric
Cardinals so we're getting 12 stations
getting electricity Wow their internet
there is only six yeah I'd be better
prepared I would ask Robbie before the
show that makes me think about can I do
second I just saw a documentary the
other day Netflix recommended it to us I
don't know if it's brand new or what but
were in Iceland and Iceland has a 100%
all of their electricity is generated by
natural processes and it's just amazing
they have so outside of their generator
plant which is actually pulling steam
from a volcano underground and turning
it into with turbines turning it into
electricity and then taking the the
gases and pumping them back into the
ground so that they become Rock so
there's absolutely no waste there's
nothing and and they've got electric
cars all lined up out front being
recharged by this steam station yes away
in a wild and I'm like man like if our
infrastructure wasn't so fossil fuel
days and maybe that's it like they had
to come up with solutions that worked
for them in in like in Iceland but man
that's just mind-bending Iceland has one
of the highest volcanic activity in the
world and their to it they're turning it
into it's really interesting
all right yeah here's they harnessed the
wind I feel like there would never be a
shortage of oh my gosh anyway so on that
note I think it's great that they're
putting in charging stations because
that's gonna but it depends on because
we have the problem here in in our area
that they can put in charging stations
and you think that you're doing
something good for the environment
because you're using an electric car but
where's the electricity coming from
fossil fuels well erm it is
that is the individual internal
combustion engines generate more
pollution than the central electricity
oh you know I absolutely understand that
is laying down that yeah I am sure of
that but what I saw in that documentary
took it like way to the next level and
showed that so much more could be done
that through it's really intriguing
don't sure about that yeah but a
question one last question for Sascha
before you shut us down Robbie because I
know it's coming how do you get your
internet Sascha do you know if it comes
in on a cable or if it comes in on
satellite or what do you know on a cable
like a phone cable you know like you
know how like in my phone jack there's
like a little thing and then it there's
like an extender they can there's two
phone jacks and ones for the actual
phone line and one for the Internet
project for you to do would be to go to
google and type type in speed test so
you're on a call but do that for the
next time that you see us and tell us
what your results are if you just type
speed test in Google they actually have
one built into the search engine you run
speed test and it seems to be pretty
accurate okay do it twice no no once
when when dave is online and once when
he is
Oh get going yeah okay okay it'll be six
kilobits I need a chart of the words and
how many like you know Robbie when you
once explained it to me or like 15,000
times explained it to me how many this
is going to that oh yeah
first I forget the numbers and the words
right I know it's really hard to get it
back although I was able to watch the
show last week yeah cool cool
nice I hope you all enjoyed it
speaking of the show last week however
do you notice the discrepancy it doesn't
have the removable faceplate as per the
photo
aha so I got to tear it apart and see if
I can actually do what I set out to do
when must man I followed your advice
after I received an an empty envelope
from from Amazon last week I got on chat
with them and they said yes sorry about
that we'll fix that and we'll send your
refund there you know I promise if you
order another one it will arrive I said
we'll see what happens
I have an Amazon question and you know
any of you have the problem where when
you click an item it says this item does
not deliver to your location on top of
the remote
okay we got nothing ready anything over
here
it is very when I shop on amazon.com
shipping to Canada always it's a bank
anyway enjoy enjoy your day off in
Australia on Saturday all day on Sunday
I have the designer coming here tomorrow
morning and I have the contractor coming
on Friday for the first time to do work
so and I've got a lot of stuff going on
in the meantime so wish me luck it's
gonna be crazy well I care everybody
have them work week great to see you all
yeah thanks about na thank you it's
great to be here
