covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias document Foundation has
announced the release of Libre Office
six point three point six as the sixth
and final update of the six point three
series which will reach end-of-life at
the end of this month coming more than
two months after LibreOffice six point
three point five the libre office six
point three point six update is here to
provide users of the libre office six
point three series with one last set of
bug and regression fixes it also aims to
improve document compatibility the libre
office six point three series is
targeted at enterprise deployments and
production environments when Labor
office six point four is already
available six point three is the only
only version currently recommended by
the document foundation for
organizations that said libre office six
point three is set to reach end-of-life
on May 29th 2020 and this is the last
update if you're running libre office
six point three in your organization it
would be best to update to version six
point three point six as soon as
possible and start considering upgrading
your six point three installations to
the six point four series in the coming
weeks the current release of labor
office is six point four point three
which will be considered ready for
enterprise deployment by the next point
release which should be out by the end
of the month until then you can get
either version from net or you can get
either version now from the official
Libre Office website binaries are
provided for dev and RPM based distros
or you can install the latest release
from the stable software repositories of
your Linux distribution
