[Music]
[Laughter]
welcome to the coffee break guys is nice
to see you hope you what's that Peter
what's today is today the seven Friday
they got my go to eat tomorrow what is
coming in thank all the danger bolos
thank Allah boy with that paper you
don't you do with a war I would make
sure that would be mention it once I
don't Worr that's the sad part is that
this year is 75 years ago since the end
of the world and because so many
circumstances yeah I have to apologize
sir oh I have to I have to apologize
because I failed to join you at the for
the for the broadcast last night dilemma
something exciting
well it went out but relate a little
late the HDMI extenders worked
brilliantly Oh
but are not extender sorry I got a great
deal
that's a repeater yeah worked flawlessly
so so it's quite pleased about that but
I then I ended up sitting in the
producers room anyways yeah well because
I don't have a laptop right now so okay
I haven't haven't got that fixed yet so
because I prediction my prediction was
you were just gonna point a camera at
the blank wall and say yeah that's the
show but tonight you sit in the
producers room
producing away I just let the camera
point to the blast wall that sounds like
a really relaxing night oh yeah just to
some ramen no but I've got my pine but
pro but I don't have any way to output
the video from that yet but I should I
should do soon because I've got those
repeaters now so but it's just the time
and boy just not enough time to get
everything set up all by my lonesome
sure I heard from the contractor I got
to email him back today cuz I did
mention yesterday that I was emailing
the contractor I mentioned that before
the show you may not have heard bp9 but
and he thinks he might be able to come
in and get some of the things done next
week yeah okay I thought we might have a
little bit of behind the scenes as we
get some things set up so that we've
nice to get that platform built maybe
the tables cleaned up or something
definitely the collage the conduit and
the cables through the conduit getting
everything wired and getting the
backdrops up on the walls like the
mounting system for the backdrops the
platform all that kind of stuff through
through this whole situation and now
that I'm kind of feeling out the space
I'm almost thinking that I might forego
the platform and just you know cuz then
I can then I can move things around a
lot easier mm-hm
I kind of no stranger to having cables
on the floor and mush man can attest to
that right
yes no but I want it I do want to have a
conduit and when I say conduit I'm not
talking like just the cables running out
like through the conduit and then out
onto the floor like I mean like this
conduit is going to be custom built with
jacks built into it so I'll be able to
plug in to the HDMI and plug into the
audio connectors and everything on that
should be functional it'll be nice yeah
probably yeah yeah absolutely but
originally I was thinking we'd have the
jacks built into the platform but but
the more I think about it and the more
that I kind of get familiar with the
space I think building a platform might
restrict us to that spot there well just
move things around though in the future
yeah if you're thinking it just gives us
more flexibility to be able to not be
trapped in that one area of the studio
we can move the camera we can move the
chairs whatever we want to do to to
change things up so I'm starting to lean
that way some so the so the backdrop
that you're talking about were you
meaning to drape over the blue wall that
you painted because you painted that
blue wall as a backdrop didn't you yeah
the what are your thinking well the
backdrop system is going on the gray
wall so you know the the wall that's
kitty-corner to where the sunlight comes
in so that wall is going to have a
seven-foot drape on it so mush or drape
system I should say so there's three
drapes mm-hmm that'll be pretty neat so
I'll just pull a chain to pull a chain
and change it to brick pull another
chain and change it to a steampunk kind
of look hey I think we've got it yeah
I think that'll be neat and if you and
if you use the back right background
color and you can ever you can have a
fake bird flying back and just love that
bird I just I mean it's a great backdrop
just fascinating to me I don't know it's
just I mean I know it's Pike but I just
love watching it go across the screen
it's great
I could keep there just watch that all
day she doesn't take much to amuse me
does it be p9i and team everybody who's
here I know in particular be p9 and I
have had this discussion and and we've
talked about how you really prefer to
have your cloud assets locally
controlled so that you don't have stuff
out there on some server somewhere you
should roll out yeah but but the fact is
is that like services like Google Drive
really make it easy for someone like me
to transfer big files around and and get
them from one place to another but I
discovered a problem with Google Drive
and that's that when I create a share
and I tell somebody hey like share it
with somebody and say hey go and upload
the video here it turns out when they
upload the video to my share there
they're using their space not my space
interests me so even though I pay extra
to have a massive amount of storage on
Google if they upload and they're just
using a free account and they exceed
that they can't upload their file to my
share it's like what's the point yeah so
I ran into that this week and so I'm set
out to figure out a solution and that
brought me brought me back to something
that I had researched in the past but
never tried and that's next cloud ok boy
oh boy is it ever something else oh my
goodness
is it a good something else serves it up
oh yeah ok I down was it up well I
downloaded the OVA so I deployed it on
the virtualization hypervisor it just as
a test and now it's in production
because it's amazing it's incredible so
it's it
seems to me like it's better than Google
Drive but it's self hosted you deployed
what's that yeah we nice cloud server VM
so github.com slash next cloud / vm and
there's a downloadable OVA file so I
downloaded that and deployed it so so
first thing I did is I set a Samba share
on my storage server and I used that for
the storage and then I realized well now
I've got local storage on the virtual
appliance and Samba storage so I removed
that and instead set up an FS tab entry
and replaced the the root folder storage
folder with the Samba share so so all of
the storage for next cloud is now moved
on to my storage server so it's part of
my backup set and everything else but
and it's encrypted but it gives me like
well I can set up user accounts than I
can set their quota myself so if I want
to give somebody 500 gigs of space
I just 500 gigs degree yesterday but
they you go here yeah you go there not
rifle you go do something else and he
called it work it's a wife or not I saw
your message I replied indeed other you
say yeah you said I was calling it
because I was calling the ambient noise
ambient noise no really what did I say
what did I say did I say wavetable yeah
that doesn't like a bad day
oops gosh oh that's such a Robbie move
well it did they yeah and until up with
my FFT as well I think as we've got that
coverage as well we did inform each
other why Factory is you know what man
please
above Budhia Reza I am able to catch
absolutely nothing here saying I'm sorry
yeah hey guys do you know what that day
was 50 yes yeah table inversion yeah
yeah what bully a bully of Redford you
could do it that's not good which we
know which is go sorry
yeah yeah I can cancel out noise no
problem but I don't want to do that in
post could you imagine the amount of
work for the hour and a half video so
you could do that you do that
yeah we have it well you've seen my
audio rack we've got we've got noise
cancellation in there plus we run
everything through I would do it at to
bubble it so what does either stay to go
improve it
yeah yeah the way they're described as
of my boys would be offend pretty much
as I did with a sound which is the back
of our throat because I used a different
different muscles of our brave voice and
he's pretty much like in my voice that's
why tied to their valve spring and
that's was a bit wary because of the
pretty much like an ending Bujji is
having spaghetti though unwise they
think you t to do lack of food about you
like you know McAvoy something's not
quite working as far as the the wave the
wave form
cancellation with an FFT filtered like I
I do that is kind of like a final step
in the audio chain but I only look at it
as a foul that I always do noise
reduction and everything on the on the
track
afterwards they do is wire things about
that big did was the good each other
like maybe really about boys but they
praised you go Jake
we shipped it lightly and that's why
I've had a bit Valkyrie and that's the
reason why you agree to that they've
stayed remove it one time but we will
run out time and also I couldn't address
book dad to bail out my daughter I'm up
for the bullets and then another guy I'd
say to you seen interesting projects
with somebody you know if I could get
the Contra computer and I'd use a sound
card trick to read say on the way to
something like you know yeah yeah yeah
you say let's say you use like a tone
generator no no that what I was doing
was I was the gold in the rodeo and with
the audio processor can effect a long
committed with it okay
it was a safe route government on to
remove bitterly okay well equalization
equalization would certainly help with
that a lot I think I have to
I'm having a great deal of trouble
understanding you today Peter but as
you're talking about using using a sound
card to attenuate your voice it made me
think it made me think of like a vocoder
so I'm picturing Peter now with a tube
in his mouth and a little bit forced to
use the production studio to do some to
do that first few weeks of shooting it
was an excellent idea to do a show on
how to improve their
Italy yeah yeah the fan were installing
a fan just oh yeah yeah well yeah I
thought that was kind of a neat thing
it's not very tacky really but sometimes
we don't really think about it but it
needed to be done and it made a
difference
it came back to get a little dirty but
it's Bob boys did buy up because of the
lack of solid gold that's what he does
to it and she's horrible oh yeah it's
bugging you today as a they take it gave
words because I measured a magic ring
for Walliser a concrete very much very
difficult to dream third world among I
got me to play Dendy down into the
Dunkirk you know that's tough no no no
no tell them you dilated to 3,000 when
entry of I went to have your prices I
see so it only today and I know me out
and when I came and I or do bath right
now if you coming down in America about
that when it works X inside died I tried
probably 20 over 20 19 years yeah I feel
that we love durable things yeah yeah
and all the things when it comes a
little a little more en difficult then
you don't have a normal voice that you
can one can use yeah
we didn't go to like go guys with people
cause a day's wages could be one
sandwich I'm George karaoke night is
never the same either shout warnings of
people or an email to Robbie
something you might not be interested in
building none of you will be twisted or
not they take us to carefully they want
that for something oh yeah battery
charge of attorney a day yeah well no
yeah yeah Weaver take Judea somewhere
it's quite good when I charge up Johnny
I never introduced everybody just for
bp9 hi hello Ron Morris that up there
hey Ron soul boo hello
we got bollock now Stan hey Bo hey the
talkative Peter Lois I'm sorry I did not
mean to make you laugh Peter I have a
quick question for you sir only did you
manage to tune into the broadcast with
your rotary last night or did you did
you remember to do that oh yeah I forgot
I
I I had one job I'd like to get a Roku
for the studio I think that would be a
good thing I've just got the one at home
so it would be nice to have one there oh
yeah I could test - yeah so you're gonna
overload your internet if you keep you
know sending a broadcast out and then
you're not calling them back in again
through half a dozen different channels
yeah I think we're pretty good I mean
we're getting we get about 800 Meg downs
so it shouldn't really shouldn't
bottleneck with anything you know that
I'm doing granted I've got my next cloud
running now so okay I'll tell you what I
think I've mentioned if it's okay to
mention a brand name I think I've
mentioned the Synology box before yeah
and it can do the same thing it can it
can I could I could think that same data
share I could create a share and I could
publish it and say okay Robbie this this
share is for you and you can do with and
I can assign quotas and etc etc just
like you just like you can with yours
what I did find however is that office
documents such as you know so-called
Word documents and Excel documents and
and those binary format documents they
end up as database blobs inside the
Synology box and I'm not sure how you
would export them or back them out you
must be able to this is one of the
reasons I avoid proprietary format it's
one of the reasons I always use
text-based formats like markdown or tip
you know like it's that's one of the
nice things about this next cloud is if
I go on to my server and look at the
drive that I'm saving the next cloud
data to it's just a Linux file system so
I can navigate it like normal like
normal so it's like a long form that's
true for any shoes that I create that
for instance I might make available to
you or whatever then is also true but
there is a separate piece of software on
the symbology box called
or something or I don't think they can
call it officer problem the copyright
issue you know calling it that but the
files that are created by met
application are as I see I see blogs and
today they're not finding Drive does um
with the next next cloud it allows you
to create files in the it like in the
wet just like Google Drive and then you
can edit them in line like it it has
things that one two things that Google
can do really really well that Microsoft
can't is well that too but being able to
collaborate on a document or a
spreadsheet all at the same time we
check the document down with Google
literally seen multiple people modifying
different parts of the same file at the
same time straight it's amazing we did
that on my show we do that on my show I
shared a public and I think you can do
the same thing with honestly I have not
tried it because as I say I'm quickly
away from those proprietary formats but
yeah I think this analogy can do the
same
is that true for your next clip account
is where you actually haven't tried it
I'm the sole you well I've added a few
users to it I should add you guys to it
and then you can let me know well that
all boils down to it all boils down to
whether you need that functionality
right that sure would be neat for I
think it's it's pretty collaborative
like it even has a built-in video
chatting service mm-hmm so you so you
can have like a zoom meeting but locally
like on your own server so that's and of
course all let the paint on here with
your
in turn it is but it's up and down line
because your audience has to be strong
enough well yours is yes but but I have
earned this internet patience I could
still call your show off yeah just have
to give you some space on my next cloud
server and then you can yeah
Rob you're gonna be doing a review of
next want to grow upcoming shows
oh I sure AM yeah absolutely right I'll
do the whole yeah I'll do the whole
deployment and everything and you can
put it on a Raspberry Pi or something -
I don't know if you'd really want to but
maybe an HC HC one or something would be
an appropriate unit right yeah yeah like
so stick an SSD on there like a terabyte
SSD and you've got a problem with the
next cloud and that is because it is a
four called own cloud which is started
that is when you upgrade you have to
upgrade each major versions in between
so if you're free for instance have a
next level 14 dots something and you
don't follow a dates always have the
latest and you the latest debian after
two years uh-huh and I'm just picking
and numbers of my head but if you have
them from the next 114 - next cloud 17
you have to 15 16 and on each major
versions you can't offend oh you have
poor you have - all over again
yeah that is the only problem I have I
don't have a problem with that because I
would just export my config and redeploy
a new deployment
personally that's how I would do it and
then and then because I'm going to be
presumably upgrading hardware at that
point anyways or something right so
right yeah methodology unit yeah I
remember the first time I shared a file
from my local computer with a friend on
the Internet kaydee to two point
something I think it was in Red Hat 7.1
and Acadia 2 had ability in the small
file server where you could configure it
to share a specific file and you could
configure it to share the file until it
has been don't know that X amount of
time so you only need one or two times
then it would stop sharing that file hmm
kind of like how I have my my cedars set
up on my torrent server so I have it set
to a specific ratio and then it stops
eating so similar kind of idea I guess
ya donate enough bandwidth anytime I
download a new image of Ubuntu on
BitTorrent it'll share it for a couple
weeks and then stop sharing how did you
enable BitTorrent I'm a little concerned
about you know exposing a machine to the
internet unless you stick it on like a
Raspberry Pi and just put it on a public
port that way you don't care if it gets
whacked right what
I would get whacked away huh well I mean
turrent has to be has to be installed on
a Linux box somewhere right yeah and so
you either harden that Linux box or you
do or you don't put anything of value on
it so in case it gets compromised you
know well hey I don't have any concerns
about BitTorrent compromising the system
I think it's more people who download
illicit material on via BitTorrent then
they get compromised because they have
what they downloaded so as you have left
a rather high do you have like a
Raspberry Pi just yeah I've got a home
delusion a no droid home cloud setup
running my BitTorrent server I'm cutting
bill has a similar similar setup a bell
so yeah to HC ones and they're strictly
the torrent servers for kept at five and
nems there's nothing else on it nothing
at all okay very cool yes it is thanks
Marsh man well I'm still trying hard to
get across the screen having a great old
time I worked at I worked at the studio
till about half-past eleven last night
and still only about two-thirds the way
done getting the episode together and
haven't gotten yesterday's coffee break
online yet so starting to really feel
the the impact of doing too much we know
when you were still there I didn't get
to sleep the laughter - oh man yeah well
I was there but I wasn't I wasn't online
like I'm chatting on dis quarter and I
was in DaVinci Resolve with about a
thousand at-at points and all the visual
assets for the audio data - yeah
on-demand version of yeah yeah so in
order to see the difference between the
wave form yeah it Scrolls across the
screen you need to read to reduce your
workload on this coffee break thing just
say the word I mean we don't have to do
this every single day
well we'll see what what what happens
I'm also running I talked about the fact
that we're probably gonna run out of
space on Vimeo and we had ninety ninety
six percent last week it was like okay
yeah it'll happen just we'll just evolve
it based on what we're what we're able
to do the idea even if it's going to be
shot down but yeah we don't have to yeah
but then I but then it's gonna be like
oh but that was so good we had this
wonderful discussion alright guys I
gotta run have a wonderful after enjoyed
it
