covering the week's top tech stores it's
like Linux bias the pine phone oh you
knew I was gonna get here didn't ya fine
64 let's just take a moment the pine
phone is an affordable Linux smartphone
created by Hine 64 the makers of the
pine but pro laptop the rock pro 64 and
pine 64 single board computers the pine
phone specs price and design are all
tailored towards keeping it a super-low
$149 so that puts it in a spot all its
own the pine phone is built for Linux
enthusiasts and developers who can
appreciate its privacy focus and open
source software don't expect it though
to be on par with the latest and
greatest smartphone right the goal with
the pine phone is to provide a reliable
open and hackable smartphone platform
powered by Linux the braveheart Edition
is available now and it's intended for
enthusiasts and early adopters only
we'll call it a first pass patch it does
not ship with Linux installed you'd have
to actually do that yourself from one of
the better builds that are available and
the handset has a few differences to the
final run units mainly related to the
antenna and the placement of the 2g
signals soon the pine phone will be
available as a complete phone preloaded
with a Linux based mobile operating
system there's no specific release date
but as soon as there is we'll be sure to
let you know so make sure you subscribe
and click the bell to receive
notifications
[Music]
