here are the stories that were covering
in the category 5 dot TV newsroom for
the first time BBC News published a news
story for every constituency that
declared election results overnight all
written by a computer a Russian police
raid on engine X's Moscow office last
Thursday has raised concerns among users
of the popular web and proxy server
software Linux has destroyed every
competing OS in the supercomputer market
taking a 100% share of the top 500 and
remember when the owner of crypto
currency exchange quadriga CX passed
away taking hundreds of millions in
customer crypto to the grave with him
well now investors are beginning to
wonder if he actually died or if he just
took the money and ran
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show this is the
category 5 dot TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
Linux bias
I'm not
Furguson filling in this week for sasha
Rickman some quick honorable mentions
well HP is fighting a very real
environmental problem by building their
laptops out of ocean bound plastics in
September HP introduced their elite
dragonfly notebook the world's lightest
compact business convertible and get
this the world's first notebook made
with ocean bound plastic HP II also
announced its commitment to include
ocean bound plastic materials in all of
its new HP elite and pro desktop and
notebook computers launching in 2020
this move reflects HP's commitment to
addressing the growing challenge of
ocean plastics to date HP has sourced
more than 1 million pounds of ocean
bound plastics that's the equivalent of
more than 35 million plastic bottles
they've been using it in their ink
cartridges HP Elite Display e27 3d
monitors and now the HP elite dragonfly
a new high-end Linux laptop has launched
that is more powerful than a MacBook Pro
and it could even be more powerful than
system76 s or X Pro it's called the
Kubuntu focus and is a joint effort
between the Kubuntu Council tuxedo
computers and mind share management the
target audience for the Kubuntu focus is
users who find the MacBook Pro too
limiting in power and compatibility with
Linux but looking at the specs it looks
like a dreamy system for Linux power
users gamers content creators and
developers as well this isn't a laptop
designed for from the ground up however
the Kubuntu focus takes roughly the same
approach as system76 does by taking a
stock cleveo unit and adapting it for
Linux this one is specifically tuned for
battery life and an optimal Nvidia KDE
experience out of the box now quick
specs look like this a core i7 9750 h
4.5 gigahertz turbo processor keep in
mind this is a lot
top gtx 2060 GPU with six gigabits of
onboard
gigabytes of onboard ram 32 gigabytes of
system ram one terabyte nvme storage and
a 16.1 1080p full HD IPS display with a
matte finish all this will come in for
less than the price of a macbook pro
with the estimated sale price at about
2400 dollars now let's get into the top
stories that were following this week in
what the BBC says is their biggest test
of machine-generated journalism so far
BBC news published a news story for
every constituency that declared
election results overnight all written
by a computer each of nearly 700
articles most in english but 40 of them
in Welsh was checked by a human editor
before publication now the head of the
project said that the tech was designed
to enhance the service provided not to
replace human reporters Robert McKenzie
editor of BBC News labs says this is
about doing journalism that we cannot do
with human beings at the moment using
machine assistance they were able to
generate a story for every single
constituency that declared during last
week's general election now which they
say would not have been even possible
with human reporters several news
organizations are testing automated
journalism as a way of covering
data-driven stories more efficiently the
technology can quickly produce stories
focused on numbers such as say football
football scores company financial
reports and general election results
obviously now mr. McKenzie said that the
articles reflected BBC style because the
choice of phrases could in fact be
programmed in advance by BBC writers he
said quote as a journalist you try to
think of every conceivable permutation
of a story in advance
then you write a template now the
machine selects particular phrases or
particular words in response to precise
pieces of data so you can write
everything if you want to in house style
he says he goes on to clarify this
clearly only works on stories that are
grounded in data it is not a technology
that allows you to do any kind of
analysis how interesting is that
so it makes sense I love that things can
be aggregated and then put into language
that we can understand and read and and
it's been happening for years but now
it's actually happening in in news
source as well and it's not really I
mean you could say that hey this is a as
some people may have a an issue with
automation AI writing the news but this
is data this is like stuff that in the
middle of the night cryptocurrency
numbers are changing and so report could
be generated in something other than
just a list of numbers no it can be put
into language that we can understand and
appreciate and and read at our
convenience so I think it can be a
really good thing and I do appreciate
that the BBC is saying that this is
something that is meant to augment their
current reporting so it's not something
that's going to put people out of work
no it's something that's going to give
them additional content that they don't
have to actually sit down and write they
can just proofread it and make sure it's
good and then push the a okay go what do
you think let us know your comments
below
a Russian police raid on engine X's
Moscow office last Thursday has raised
concerns among users of the popular web
and proxy server software several
employees including chief developer Igor
C oz c of the
know what to say Igor and co-founder
Maksim I'm just gonna leave it at that
they were interviewed by police over a
criminal copyright infringement
complaints now get this the raid arrived
a week after Russian search engine and
Internet firm Rambler they who was the
former employer of one of those after
mentioned they claimed full ownership of
the engine X code in addition Rambler
Internet Holdings is requesting the
equivalent of about eight hundred and
ten thousand US dollars engine acts a
firm created in 2011 to provide support
for users of the open-source web server
software of the same name was bought by
US firm f5 networks for six hundred and
seventy million dollars back in March
engine X was first released as far as
the software goes in 2004 around a third
of the web's servers in the world use
engine X often as a load balancer
even if Rambler can prove their case
against engine ax f5 wants to calm fears
about future support and product
development by reminding its users that
master software builds of its
open-source software are stored outside
of Russia how scary is that so if what
they're saying is true so the claim is
that this guy worked at Rambler and
while he was working there presumably on
company time was developing engine X and
so now they're saying hey that's our
software he was on company time that's a
scary thing and and what does that mean
for for the like the world of open
source because engine X is huge the like
in the top three like Apaches in there I
don't know who the number two is can't
be I is that just be wrong but we'll
just say nginx is in the top three
interesting thing about Rambler is that
it seems like they are going after a lot
of individuals and companies right now I
don't know if their legal department has
changed or if they've just said hey
let's look at ways to bring income out
of other things like they're suing
twitch right now so twitch the online
gaming community that the broadcast
video used to be justin.tv Rambler is
suing them because of users using the
twitch service to rebroadcast football
games and things like that
illegally well twitch says it's not
really our fault like we offer the
platform we have the policies in place
that say you're not allowed to do that
if someone does though it's not like we
have people policing it if we knew about
it if you had have come to us if Rambler
had have come to us we would have shut
it down so in retro as retroactively as
this is to try to sue us over this like
they're trying to - they're actually
trying to have twitch blocked in Russia
like they're doing all kinds of stuff in
here nginx the one of the top three web
server software's in the world and it's
open source software is under attack
severely raid it and and who knows
what's gonna happen next so we're gonna
keep eyes on that and find out over the
course of the next couple of weeks what
is going to be happening with nginx now
we've got to take a really quick break
the crypto corner and more of this
week's top tech stories are gonna be
coming right up so don't go anywhere
[Music]
welcome back to the critic on this week
has been brutal market cat went down
from 200 billion to now around hundred
seventy five billion become dropped
around ten percent other coins dropped
fifteen sixteen percent it's been hard
some of you will be celebrating some of
you will be sad those that are
celebrating see the opportunity to buy
more of their coins and those they are
sad of thinking of leaving this
community now what advice can I give you
here because I've been through this too
many times then my advice is very simple
is when you form your opinion just
listen to a group of people so don't
listen to one single person listen to a
group of people and from your opinion
that way and why because this will this
this industry is not regulated so very
it's an international market and
therefore there are many experts
everybody can be an expert here and the
traditional industry like stocks for
examples there are experts that only do
for example forecasting 24 hours a day
seven days a week it's a local thing its
regulated not the crypto industry so be
careful take your decisions very
carefully and as I recommend listened to
a multitude of experts not to only one
person so what else has happened this
week one thing Mongolia they are now
implementing the possibility to purchase
or to pay the taxi fare with the stable
client which is great I mean on an
international basis it's small but it's
great news for industry then the
European Central Bank Christine Lagarde
started talking in a press conference
about the future of of cryptocurrencies
within the ECB and they're building a
task force which goes in line with what
Italy is doing and Sweden is doing and
defray Nia is
issuing cryptic collectables so all good
news around that area something that I
found interesting is also a ripple now
has over 450 employees so it's a
substantial size I thought that was
worth mentioning and last but not least
in the case of quadriga the lawyers are
now pushing towards physical evidence
that the owner has passed away so that's
going to be interesting and in this
channel we're going to continue
reporting about that what's the subject
of the week subject of the week is going
to be mining there is one website which
is called what to line.com
where you can calculate or how much
profit you're going to make if you
select one or the other coin and you
start mining that coin I do recommend
that you try to mine something just
select any coin use your raspberry pi
for this year it's a great experience
you learn a lot about how to how this
how crypto currency or blockchain
technology really works and if you'd
selected carefully yours will make some
money I don't focus on the real big ones
that you theorem or Bitcoin because for
my point of view that you don't have any
chance you don't learn a lot take those
that are really small and that support
for example raspberry pi or CPU and you
will learn a lot so it's just because
we're technology focused here it's
something that I do recommend and that's
for me so I wish you a great week and
I'm looking for I am looking forward to
see you soon thank you for watching
thank you Robert just a reminder to our
community that we're not giving
financial advice here we're just sharing
what's happening in the cryptocurrency
market it's clear that Linux is ruling
the world of supercomputers as the
latest from top 500 reports that Linux
is now the operating system of choice on
all of the fastest 500 supercomputers in
the world top 500 is an independent
project that was launched in 1993 to
Mark's supercomputers it publishes the
details of the top 500 fastest
supercomputers known to them twice per
year on their website you can filter the
list based on various criteria such as
country operating system vendor and so
on now 20 years back most of the
supercomputers in the world ran the
closed source UNIX operating system but
eventually Linux took the lead and
became the preferred choice
supercomputers are specific devices
built for specific purposes this
requires a custom operating system
optimized for those specific needs so
the fact that Linux is open source and
easily modified to suit the individual
supercomputer needs is likely why it's
the only choice out of the top 10
fastest supercomputers in the world USA
has five China has two while Japan
Germany and Switzerland have Switzerland
pardon me have one each no surprise I
feel like I feel like Windows used to be
on that list it totally makes sense
though that open source is like
absolutely I've never really given that
much thought but the fact that say
Windows server operating system is a
closed source OS as is Mac OS well it
makes sense that I would as a developer
as a creator of a supercomputer I'd want
something that I can customize and of
course they're going there for the
fastest they want the best speeds and
how do we get to be the fastest custom
compiled software it has to be compiled
on that architecture on that hardware
that's what's so cool about Linux I mean
that's what's so appealing about say Gen
2 or even our clinics in the world of
Linux for power users because you can
compile the entire operating system on
the specific hardware that you're going
to be running it on so you're gonna get
the the absolutely optimal speed out of
that system presumably because it's
going to become
specifically for the architecture and
hardware that you have that's cool 100%
100% yes
in late January the wife of crypto
currency exchange founder testified that
her husband inadvertently took at least
a hundred and thirty seven million
dollars of customer assets to the grave
when he died without giving anyone the
password to his encrypted laptop now
just a moment ago we heard from Robert
on the crypto corner about this and
we're just gonna go into more details
now see what's happened is is that
outraged investors want to exhume the
founders body to make sure that he's
actually dead so this is this is news
all around it's not just cryptocurrency
news this is like this is a whole shift
in a whole new way that I never it never
even crossed my mind that this could be
a scam and now it's like could it be a
scam just to kind of remind us what
happened so back in February 2019 the
wife of Jerry cotton the founder of
quadriga CX crypto currency exchange
submitted an affidavit stating that he
died suddenly while vacationing in India
at the age of just thirty the cause
complications of Crohn's disease a bowel
condition that is in fact rarely fatal
at the time quadriga CX lost control of
at least a hundred and thirty seven
million dollars in its customer assets
because it was stored on a laptop that
according to the widows affidavit only
cotton knew the password to his widow
Jennifer Robertson said that the laptop
stored his cold wallet now that's a
digital wallet that's not connected to
the Internet and it contained the
digital currency belonging to customers
of the exchange
according to Robertson after attempts to
guess his password she went on to hire
experts to attempt to decrypt the laptop
but they too failed one expert even
profiled cotton in an attempt to hack
the computer but that attempt also came
up with nothing on Tuesday
the New York Times reported that the
amount of the exchange clients were
unable the amount that they were unable
to access is now in fact calculated to
be 250 million dollars meanwhile law
enforcement officials in both Canada
where quadriga CX is located and in the
United States are investigating
potential wrongdoing and investors are
clamoring for proof that cotton is
actually dead lawyers representing
exchange clients on Friday asked
Canadian law enforcement officials to
exhume his body and conduct an autopsy
to confirm both its identity and the
cause of death according to a report
from an auditing firm hired by the
Supreme Court of Nova Scotia quadriga CX
has transferred quote significant
volumes of cryptocurrency unquote into
personal accounts held by cotton on
other exchanges that sounds kind of
damning the report also documented that
the transfer it documented the transfer
of substantial funds to cotton
personally that had no clear business
justification an autopsy is unlikely to
lead to the recovery of the missing
cryptocurrency but it would go a long
way to confirming or debunking the
claims that cotton died at the time and
in the manner disclosed to quadriga CX
customers as I said like I can't even
fathom that this could be fraudulent and
I don't want to believe that I want I
mean just like I'm sure the the courts
want to know that yes this was in fact
what happened I want to believe that it
was an honest story but I think what it
what it raises is that cryptocurrency
has that has opened this whole new
method of somebody taking the money and
running and even if that's not the case
here with quadriga CX it certainly is an
eye-opener to think that
hey this could in fact happen Holly
we've got to get ahold of this folks
because this could make a heck of a
great hacker movie I gotta say hmm
hey big thanks this week - Roy W Nash
Johnny a soul boo and our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thank you for watching
the category-five dot TV newsroom and
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at patreon.com slash
newsroom from the category-five dot TV
newsroom and filling in for sasha
Rickman this week I'm Robbie Ferguson
