broadcasting from union point on planet
earth and this is the Union point
podcast kicking off our fan series were
chatting about perhaps the biggest news
in the Orval fandom since season three's
renewal announcement I'm talking about
the one thing that has caused Seth
MacFarlane to curse the name of Avis
publicly out of sheer excitement or
should I say endorsement it's a virtual
reality game that lets you step foot on
the decks of the Orval stick around I'm
going to be speaking with the project's
lead from the game studio responsible
for the Orville interactive fan
experience
[Music]
I'm speaking with Dan covere he's the
project lead at the Orville interactive
fan experience at messy desk interactive
welcome to the showdown thank you thank
you good feelin first off how did your
ragtag group of genius miscreants get
started well I guess it all began with a
bunch of geeks just hanging out on the
internet trying to gather some Star Trek
meshes and slowly we kind of evolved
into a semi organized group doing the
enterprise-d
and then yeah just ever just evolve from
there mentioning the enterprise-d so
those who are not aware stage 9 you may
be familiar with the names CBS and
cease-and-desist comes to mind you and
your team have been through a lot dan
you've had some time to process it how
at this point do you feel about that
whole thing well to be honest though we
like to look upon it as an opportunity
and it was a good practice run managing
a project with that kind of scale
obviously we would have loved continued
doing the enterprise but just wasn't
possible but luckily there is a another
show out there which holds all the
ideals we'd all be at the heart so
obvious choice is it just me or does
sometimes it seems as though avis Shawn
upon you as a fan creation Dan stage 9
and now of course the Orville
interactive fan experience they're very
much a labor of love for you and your
team so when the cease-and-desist
happened a lot of us would simply give
up you know your dreams are like shot
down in an instant like that we were all
really really excited about what stage 9
was doing you were gaining momentum and
then suddenly snap CBS shut it down so
can I just ask like on a personal level
for yourself and for your team what kept
you guys going Hey grim determination
initially um you know we explored every
avenue we possibly could try and you
know keep the project alive and in the
end I mean even after it was obvious
that there wasn't going to go anyone
know we thought to ourselves
it's a lot of talented guides crazy boss
I think we're losing you there if you
could just if you just watch we seem to
be losing yeah but I think you're back
sorry yeah there you go
yes mmm you know we had a really
talented team and developers and would
have been crazy to break that team up
yeah think so you know we decided you
know let's stick together let's do
something else that's fine make the next
project even more special than the last
let's see what shows come along that are
not made by CBS Dan you guys made the
announcement on Monday and since then
we've been leaking screenshots through
our twitter account to fans of the Orval
just so that they can see what's coming
from messy desk how is the response
being from the fans for you guys wow
it's been humbling honestly it's been
extreme I mean we thought fans would
probably get a kick out what we're doing
um but it exploded overnight I think we
had an extra 350 people join our discord
just in in one afternoon
wonderful hell yeah absolutely mental
and well you know honestly we were so
excited this project they're seeing the
fans I'm well drives us that little bit
harder make and how about the creators
of the Orville Q tell us a little bit
about how they've responded to your fan
project sure yeah and we we initially
made a few phone calls hit some dead
ends didn't really know who to talk to
do but in the end we got ahold of Tom on
reddit yeah and Tom de hue jooge figure
in the community he does such an amazing
job of getting the message out there it
was
because he represents doesn't he he
really represents to us what what a
community ambassador should should be
like yeah absolutely and you know and we
sent him a pitch video and he sent it
back and she said Wow everyone loves
then we thought you know what I think
this can go somewhere yeah so can I ask
that pitch video was it stage 9 was at
NCC 1701 D or had you been working on
something to do with the or Bell and so
you know we actually started work on the
project about October or the beginning
of October last year so we had some of
the from the first deck fleshing out
bridge ready rooms you know we just did
a quick fly around show and you had a
favorite
it's since your launch or since the
announcement of the coming launch what
has been the response of the creators of
the show they they've been really
supportive and their charms for any kind
of official backing maybe one day we can
get a nice right now you know they're
they're fans of the project as much as
we're fans of your bill know so we've
got like a fan to fan relationship
there's nothing official going on um but
it's great that they love it and it's
great that they're gonna kick out isn't
that cool
so behind the scenes being a fan project
it's not officially endorsed but what
kind of you know what kind of blessing
do you have from the creators or what
kind of okay do you have to go ahead and
do this I guess the best we've achieved
is the project we had a meeting with Fox
you know Fox know who we are you know
what we're doing yeah you know they
haven't given you know an official
prehnite but you know we have been
allowed to go ahead and do a fan project
completely non-commercial or fans by
fans in an on that basis and a happy for
it exist very good I can't wait to see
where it goes it's time for us to take a
really quick break down when we get back
we're gonna see some more in-game
renders and we're gonna find out details
about the game itself from the project
lead an NGO veer and ultimately we're
gonna get to the bottom of how you can
set your virtual foot on the decks of
the Orval stick around
let's talk about the underlying
technology I hear you're using a current
version of Unreal Engine 4 so Dan what
has that meant for both you in the
production end and by you I mean messy
desk the entire team and what does it
mean for the fans as well but it's um
it's it really that's a huge and it does
things like we are out of the box really
really well
yeah and it's those um it's a score
system to relying on quite heavily and
an Unreal Engine is you know the
blueprint interface is something that
we're very fond of you can prototype
system really know it's real fast it's
mostly stable yeah it's good to work
with and also it's got quite a lot of
cross platform supports so things like
steamvr and stuff I supported out of the
box which hmm yeah that's huge you made
the announcement and posted the video on
Monday and it was really exciting of
course for myself and Sasha
to see our likeness featured so I
suggested a couple of minor adjustments
to our models just to make them look a
little more true to us and you said that
in fact players are going to be able to
modify their own character models in
game can you tell us about that sure I
guess you can think of it as I can MMO
style character customization so you
know sort of body width and different
facial styles hair style uniform color
it's that kind of thing yeah maybe
extend it to other things like the old
stage 9 Christmas ham I spotted that
that was one of the Easter eggs yeah
yeah is it gonna have multiplayer it's
banned for day one I mean we have tested
it and he's working it needs a little
bit more stress things which other so
obviously we want to release something
that works well and not something that
works lightly yeah yeah what kinds of
insight
sorry I know our connection between
Earth and and Europa is a little shaky
tonight but I lost you just at the end
there what kinds of multiplayer should
we expect in like are we talking
deathmatch are we talking collaborative
sure well initially it's going to be
let's just hang out with your friends
explore the ship together you know just
have some adventures but you'll also be
able to you know pick up a pistol shoot
your friend in the face yeah so you know
there were all kinds of shenanigans you
can get up to in multiplayer and we're
quite keen to to make a playground the
players to make their own adventures in
addition to some stuff that sounds
awesome I wasn't expecting the
multiplayer aspect do we need to set up
a server are there going to be publicly
accessible servers I can imagine that
Union point is going to launch one if
that's an available option we're looking
at steam as a distribution okay so we'll
be using the steam multiplayer
functionality oh right great so you
should rest Direct Connect your friends
let's peer-to-peer if there are some
potential licensing issues there with it
being an existing like whether or not we
have permission to use steam but that's
that's the number one fan yeah not we're
looking at something a minecraft model
so you could maybe run your own server
you know just join an exit mm-hmm that
could be cool and what other features
can we expect that will really get us
excited as far as like out of the box at
launch day what are we what are we gonna
see and wow it's difficult to say
because we're going to do a staged
release so much like stage 9 and we'll a
nice release an initial version of the
project yeah and that project will
evolve over time so I add more features
you know um hopefully we'll have the
environment simulator in a lot on launch
where you can load different sim week
ideas that will hide the actual chips
the power the different Sims around the
ships you've gotta find take them back
to the nearest Easton plug it in plenty
of opportunity for Easter eggs they're
very good
well what kind when I think about these
features that are gonna be coming at me
it sounds like the your you're planning
to launch pretty well like fully
playable product right on day one is
that right pretty much and a lot of the
won't be fleshed out initially
again same mistakes 9 so deck like that
um there are I'm gonna say 10 decks
yeah so far I mean it's a bit of a
squeeze it looks like that staircase
goes down about a thousand decks it
looks more than it is it's only 10 yeah
okay there how are you finding the size
of the ship compared to NCC 1701 D is is
this yeah I think in terms of internal
volume you're looking something about
the size of Voyager okay it's not a big
ship big enough yeah absolutely
and we're gonna be able to tour it in a
very short amount of time what kind of
hardware requirements are there going to
be for this less than stage 9 it's
optimized stage 9 so if you ran station
I'm pretty well then you should be
absolutely fine um I if I pressed then
they got a gtx 960 and i usually bought
50 pairs a second first place for me
it's working fine on a relatively
mid-range great if I don't have a VR
headset am I still gonna be able to play
okay yeah yeah so it's gonna support
first-person and the VR optional and
we're hoping this time to get both in
the same release as before you had to
download two separate versions and so
hopefully we'll get those combined oh
well then that'd be fantastic
well that's great speaking of like
versions and releases are we going to be
seeing this project available for Mac
Windows Linux Android or are you
targeting a particular platform
the initial Windows Mac and Linux so all
three platforms ported great and we've
got a lot of people requesting psvr and
yes we'd like to but the dev kits quite
expensive obviously for a fee free fan
project but always but yes if we can we
will um and then yes we might have to do
a cut-down version for mobiles but I
think station I was working briefly on
mobile so it's something we'll explore
cool that raises an interesting kind of
situation that you have is that it could
cost a lot of money to implement some of
the features that fans want to see but
you can't charge for the product because
it's a fan production correct right so
so how do you how do how do you make
that work like is this all out of pocket
or is this something is there some way
that the community can back it right now
it's all literally as he said this this
is a labor of love you know if we need a
feature we implement that feature it's
how long it takes or how hard it is it's
kind of irrelevant is if we want it bad
enough and that goes for the community
as well the community at large as a
particular feature that they're really
keen on seeing it okay and we'll do our
best
get it in there we're good and speaking
of the fact that you can't can't
monetize it how much will it cost us to
install and I know the answer and I
think that you watching it at home know
the answer but how much is this gonna
cost us
that's free free completely free so what
still has to happen I mean we're we know
that you're hoping for early summer
release 2019 what has to happen still
before you can release the game to the
public so we're actually looking to
release a set or so so the order was set
on stage 15 box stage 15 and and we're
going to recreate stage 15 as best we
can and so it's just basically the first
two decks
oh we have to have up maybe three to
four people but it's neatly just the
first two that bit of a taster so you
gonna tease us even more white or the
whole ship and that's just to give the
fans you know something to play while
they wait for us to release the the
proper version one yeah we need to
completely dismantle that and rearrange
a thing so it makes more sense as a
proper working starship the layouts on
the soundstage it's not well it sounds
great
it's gonna be nice that you know I love
that you're at least giving us a taste
that we can get in and actually try it
see how our hardware handles it and get
ready for what's next
do you have any particular needs in in
your organization that perhaps somebody
in our community can support if you know
if you're looking for a particular
talent or skill set are there any of
those that are still maybe lacking or
perhaps could use a little bit of help
yeah so we recently took on someone that
we found on Twitter if there's someone
out there and they're doing you know
quality or bill related work just as a
passion project so that's exactly the
kind of person we bring on Steam is it
someone that's you know they're already
into the or bill they already loved you
know they feel that creative meet yeah
modeling and drawing oh and it's those
kind of people looking for so yeah I
mean if you can tell we know they best
to reach out to you on Twitter or what's
what's the best way to get ahold of you
and discord all right and we'll post
links for you so if you're watching this
and wondering okay how can I find this
we're gonna post links below and of
course if you if you follow us on
Twitter Union underscore point we will
have those links for you there as well
Dan thank you so much to you and the
team at messy desk interactive for your
countless hours I mean I can't even
imagine all the work that you have put
into this
for the fans of the orville and an extra
special thanks to those who create the
Orval for allowing this fan creation to
go forward you truly do remind us sci-fi
fans what a real community ambassador
should look like thanks for watching and
don't forget to follow us on Twitter
we've got a discord set up and all the
links as I mentioned will be available
through our Twitter profile so that's
probably the best way at this point to
find out more about Union point so
that's it for this time from Union point
on planet Earth
