the coffee break it is April 4th 2020
how's everybody doing
ocular yeah there's sarcasm there it's a
lot of pain here I was cleaning out the
garage my back went into spasm so I'm
into my chair hunched over with half the
garage out on the dresser
oh my gosh sorry man you gotta be
careful dude really hard to seek medical
help right now
well they knock they couldn't help you
anyway
no all I did was I was just I was fixing
the old snowblower I just kneeled on my
knee pad and started taking out the
bolts and crumble I I did really well
with the move this time I cramped up a
couple times but I did pretty good but
there was once one summer when we were
at our cottage and everything was great
and we packed up at the end of the trip
and then I grabbed the big heavy garbage
bag and was carrying it out to the van
and that on our way like the last minute
of the last day is when I hold my back
so I drove home like this I feel your
pain it's the worst I don't see bp9 yet
today but I I did pull out my phantom of
the opera' mug this is the legit like
colour changing the original the og gas
station park ups because I'm at the
computer so it has always only their
lead so if it turns over it's it doesn't
float over everything happens but the
trick is contagious what's that I just
plain old glass don't spill man don't
spill the I saw you say that smoking
phantom of the opera' at the Pantages
Theatre in Toronto when I was in grade
six
that was when I think my love for
Broadway
began so good afternoon
- I see Marsh man's soul do and Peter
joining us for our coffee break today
and we'll see if anyone else trickles in
as well it's the weekend with guys we
made it happen to get another week yeah
I don't want to always I joke from the
early seasons that you know we don't
ever talk about the weather here
but last weekend was pouring rain and
then we had blue sunny skies all week
which was kind of refreshing but I only
got to see it on my way to and from work
as I sitting at my desk all day and then
come Friday afternoon I'm planning to
barbecue and sure enough 3 o'clock in
the afternoon it starts pouring rain so
being home from work I just lose track
of the same Murphy's Law earlier this
week darah said it's Wednesday I said no
it's not it's Tuesday she says no I
checked I thought it was Monday it's
actually Wednesday and I looked at my
down there and yeah I think being that I
do still have to go to work every day
every weekday it still gives me that
sense of normalcy so I'm still kind of
I've still got the same routine
basically so mmm it's not the same but
at least I'm not losing track of the
days anyways but boy oh boy I'll tell
you what I was looking forward to the
weekend this week
twenty years ago I was attending a year
after and at the Bible School and one
day I woke up and I was late I was two
hours late so I hurried up and ate a
little something and I went to the
school and then it was closed
oh it's Saturday today one of those
weeks yeah are you okay bill yeah you
need me to call Tara and tell her to
come and give you a back rub
no no she's given me enough medicine
take take the edge so payback
I spun up a Windows Server 2019 VM this
morning yes now I'm a nag that just
works on so many levels
[Laughter]
yeah but III need to look at it for this
project coming up so I need to
familiarize myself with 2019 so oh yeah
I'm on the on the opposite side building
Nan's Linux building nameless version
1.6 we've just upgraded to bullseye cuz
they've locked they feature locked
Debbie and 11 so we're gonna very very
soon see disk bros transitioning to
bullseye will be among the first as
usual so I guess I'll have to start
doing my SPC build base from bullseye as
well so more better testing more better
testing
I'm here
Oh bill I feel like you need to recline
something I all know I tried to in it oh
my goodness that hurt it hurt more
reclining so I actually just leaned back
it's a little bit better so I'm getting
there okay all right quiet coffee break
maybe we should just like we can all
just take a deep breath
yes I had an hour ago I was outside on
there
for a whole hour I was shearling snow
and now it's snowing again and it's
blowing so it's good well no thank you
yeah we're done yeah I was already done
with snow yeah and I have some good news
I had some work done in my bathroom
because of water damage did a new year
again and yesterday they were finished
the last five weeks the delivery time it
was it was the wall in last block if you
know what
oh so much good get that done working
bathroom is always a good thing yeah
yeah here yeah here Terry oh the
government has shut down construction so
that's gonna affect the show but it's
also like I mean every poor contractor
who's not allowed to work right now so
as of midnight tonight yeah appreciate
for were there lots of construction work
and I had those schedules to have
something to do so do I seem laggy today
yeah yeah I think having the kids home
and me being on the same network like
there I've got one playing roblox
they've got one playing Nintendo switch
I got another one watching videos on her
phone and it's Murphy's Law when daddy's
phone is connected to the Wi-Fi everyone
else gets 50k yeah the worst part is is
all the stuff was sitting outside in the
driveway you've got to get it back in
what's the is it nice out today it looks
like Oh got some sunshine coming for hit
rapes there it's beautiful it's
beautiful it's warming up and it's sunny
it's nice that's why I started I said
that's good a good day oh yes it's it's
getting warmer here but we still got
kind of cloudy skies and rain
so I still have to get up on the roof of
studio D to get that antenna down and I
didn't feel safe doing that while it's
while it's rainy it's a steel room so
not a good idea yeah
so I was saying Debian 11 is entering
feature lock so my my Linux distro
called names Lennox is is an official
Debian derivative so I get like they
email me when they're locking things and
so you get kind of like a heads up when
when they're getting ready for new
transmissions so I got that email of few
weeks ago but I was so busy with the
move and everything else that was going
on that I hadn't got a chance to to do
anything yet so I did move my build base
for the docker image of gnomes Linux too
and I haven't uploaded this so you want
to get this on docker hub but I moved it
over to Debian 11 and then of course
rebuilt on on that so if that's
basically my base and like ever
it just takes like like a boss there's
no problem at all so cool is basically
just upgrading you could probably even
upgrade I didn't see any security
updates repositories yet so you may have
to disable those and your sources dot
list but if you wanted to on a test
system you could probably just go into
your sources list file and change Buster
to bullseye and you'll you'll do a apt
upgrade and get the latest version of
Debian looks like it's pretty rock-solid
at this point our service is still up in
eight so we have been during the last
few months yeah definitely
but we are still getting an official
updates so urgent yet extensive ass
yeah compared to previous like like
Buster was positive forever it was
sitting and testing for a long time yeah
my concern with that approach solve it
with using an older version is you're
going to have older versions of things
like TLS and SSL SSH I mean OpenSSH so
that is a concern from a security
standpoint so yes you're gonna get
feature updates and things but you're
still gonna have older versions of some
some packages that are that have known
exploits speaking TLS 10 years ago I
think I discovered that I was doing a
search sometimes looking for but I
discovered a file that was there yeah
they were looking for streaming
applications that because we are
explicitly abandoning those because we
don't have the money to pay for it and I
found our user having a short cost
executable in this and I also discovered
they had a suspicious looking theater
ball that I am in investigated and it
turned out it was a root exploit and
when I googled the exploit it turned out
that it didn't work because our kernel
was too old oh no I was only testing to
see if it worked and going back to other
exploits that would instead have been in
the news all week
zoom I got it I received an email last
night zoom the zoom app must be removed
from
corporate laptops oh come on you know
they have to use it through the browser
if necessary can't happy out all right
now so your employer is listening to all
the mmm the we'll call it news yeah I'm
for lack of a better term yeah to be
fair any of these security concerns that
have arisen out of the sudden
unbelievable use usage of zoom like
imagine three four weeks ago they were
just a handy tool that some people used
right I have a lot use it yeah now we're
everybody used everybody uses it now
everybody we're all look everybody uses
something so so of course we hear about
these exploits to be fair they've
already patched like they've changed the
default settings so that it requires a
password on your on your zoom meeting
they've changed some of the security so
that it addresses some of the issues
like they're working on it
we got to give them some slack you know
I think if anything the better advice to
removing it would be just make sure you
got the latest version
make sure you up-to-date and just don't
use it for like government government
should probably have their own hosted
solution but for average show users and
businesses you're not really using it
for anything confidential really like
that right you just be wise to the fact
that you're using a free public service
or even if you're using the pro version
just gotta be mindful of that but there
it is Prime Minister was really
shouldn't
well I don't know if what the meeting
was was confidential or you know but
obviously a government should have the
resources in place to have their own
hosted solution but but realistically I
don't know we just got to put it into
context I said tonight had that in our
discord that what did I say I don't
remember I mentioned that all of the
video conferencing systems are really
being put to the test and this is one of
the outcomes of people starting to
looking at what can we do supposed to do
so a lot of testing and and
circumventing are being tried to yeah
yeah how can we exploit it yeah and I
found it really funny that one of the
one of the reviews that was posted that
it was all negative and it was all just
it was ridiculous like they were
complaining about Oh
people can record the session well how
many of you right now see the little
indicator that says recording on your
screen yeah everybody sees it right so I
mean that's not an issue we can't even
raise that but in this video it was that
they were standing at a desk and the
desk had the LogMeIn logo printed on it
something like I can't take this
seriously for an instant like this is
one of their competitors together please
Joe you said the other day about yahwah
in london right about you back on track
with open mail so it really was the
yelling from where bridge is gone and
good he talked very well disappointment
well I'm not it's all just about context
like my my my daughter had singing
lessons over zoom right so in the
context of security and privacy it's
like it's singing lessons
we're not giving away world secrets here
you know yeah keep it in context that's
all speaking of singing am I just last
night someone posted on Facebook and I
don't know it to my ear and maybe 20 of
the some of the worship singers in the
Norway got together and made a version
of the 100 already the hymns and it was
a strange it was a very good song
quality despite that they were most
people were singing into things like
this but a song called it was good yeah
and everyone was standing enough there
phone that was leaning at something and
then yeah everyone was at home and
that's cool virtual coin how can you get
creative I think our first few episodes
from of category 5 at studio here can
end up being like socially distant
episode it's very I don't have to do a
very similar thing where my co-host
can't come to the studio well you know
or you're gonna be back to season one
type I'm gonna do the best I can but
we'll see what it looks like I'm just
puttin just puttin the plans on that now
because it looks like things are not
going to be getting any better
before the 22nd that's for sure so I
gotta I gotta have a back-up plan so we
will be broadcasting them bring back the
gerbil cam yeah
and I'd have to get a gerbil bail how to
care for it nevermind forget that no new
road and what do you think space what do
you think we changed a space fish they
get the black bag of the well we got
about two more minutes guys yeah
sometimes it's just nice to just relax
and just hang out yeah someone wrote in
an article about this situation that is
going around the world and he said that
it is if it almost looks like the good
Lord is forcing everyone to rest a
little bit so I think so is completely
forgetting the economics socially inside
families a little bit of this could be
healthy when people are read it's all
about perspective right
yeah it's all perspective and so I hope
that you know our viewers that your
perspective is that that maybe you can
do a soul who suggests which is take
this as an opportunity to rest I think
it is a time to be closer to your family
if you can and if you can't if you're
physically distant you use the
technology that we're using today
something like this we're just using
zoom but whatever you can come up with
to be able to communicate with your
family and loved ones we're using it for
our community so you can do this in a
press conference three or four days ago
the Easter it is coming and a lot of
people are wanting to go visit their
friends and family and the minister said
that unnecessary travels must be avoided
but going home for Easter is
unnecessary so it could be a good thing
so if people none of us can K sorry
about hearing no I don't I don't have to
use this kind of actually it's funny
though because if I'm downstairs and
she's in her room upstairs I don't call
her I used this court she reports can
you come down please tomorrow we do this
every single day I was saying you know
if you if you don't have somebody that
you can hang out with right now in a
socially distant way they'll learn to
hate that term but you know what I mean
we're here every single day twelve
o'clock Eastern Time and the link to
join our coffee break is right on our
website category five TV so you can join
us next time take care everybody nice to
see you have a good day library
