Canadian folklore and ghost stories as
retold by author Becca Ferguson narrated
by Robbie Ferguson taking place in 1829
this is the poltergeist of Walden
Ontario
in 1829 in the Scottish settlement of
ball dune Ontario that John McDonald
family purchased a two-story farmhouse
and soon found themselves terrorized by
a violent poltergeist for reasons
unknown there was a land dispute over
the sale in particular by an old woman
who was very much opposed her threats
and misgivings were left unheeded
however and the MacDonalds moved in the
hauntings began straight away the lid of
the kettle flying off as the kettle
flung itself to the floor the poker and
broom in the hearth jangling in an
unfilled custom wind stone smashing
through windows with no culprits in
sight and an Indian knife lifted from
its mount and throw at the window
piercing the casement firmly once John
Marth one of the stones with paint and
threw it into a nearby stream only to
find him back on the floor of his house
a few hours later but the worst was yet
to come
one day the house randomly caught on
fire and burned to the ground
the family escaped unscathed and after
briefly living elsewhere returned to the
property to live in a tent perhaps
planning to rebuild at this time a
country witch doctor came along and
spoke to them he claimed that the Egypt
lived in the same Great Lakes area
believed that there was not a
poltergeist tormenting the family at all
but rather forest fairies the house had
been built on a fairy path and they were
simply in the way the hauntings were
intended to scare them off
but as later recounted by John MacDonald
son Neal a local teenage girl with
second sight had different advice for
the family altogether she told them to
fashion some silver bullets and go in
search of any unusual geese in the area
John found a white goose with a black
head near the river and proceeded to
shoot at it his aim was bad and he
nicked only the wing breaking it so he
chased after the wounded goose through
the hillsides and forests until he lost
track of it it was then that he
discovered a cabin in the woods the
house of the old woman who had contested
his purchase of the land and there she
sat
in a rocking chair on her porch
muttering curses cradling a broken arm
[Music]
this has been the poltergeist of Baal
dune Ontario part of Becca Ferguson's
Canadian folklore and ghost stories
series catch the complete and
ever-growing series on Wattpad
directly on the author's website Becca
Ferguson calm
