here's what's coming up in the category
five dot TV newsroom PayPal has
confirmed that a researcher found a high
severity security vulnerability that
could expose user passwords to an
attacker hundreds of millions of
Broadcom based cable modems are at risk
of remote hijacking Apple is now selling
rack-mountable cheese graters and the
pine phone
Braveheart Edition is available now for
early adopters and will tell you about
the $150 smartphone from pine sixty-four
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show this is the
category five dot TV newsroom covering
the week stop texting with a slight
linux bias
Ravi Ferguson filling in for Sascha
Rickman this week some quick honourable
mentions
last month citrix disclosed a critical
security hole in both its application
delivery controller and unified gateway
offerings up to 80,000 systems were
thought to be at risk with some 25,000
instances found online over this past
weekend those admins who haven't put
mitigations into place by now will want
to make sure that they address their
situation immediately as InfoSec
researchers have now publicly declared
and shared working exploit code for the
remote takeover bug now the
proof-of-concept code can be used to
trivially achieve arbitrary code
execution with no account credentials in
other words they'll be easily able to
hijack systems if you haven't put in
place the mitigations by now and you
have vulnerable systems facing the
internet you've probably already been
hacked
since BOTS have been masked scanning the
net for machines to compromise these
days with ransomware for example being
such a key issue I can't reiterate
enough keep your firmwares up to date
could you imagine if somebody was able
to compromise your modem that gives them
access to every device every single
device on your network and if any one of
those is accessible with RDP or with
Samba shares right like file-sharing
your server probably has file-sharing
well now all of a sudden guess what
you're done
keep those devices up to date speaking
of security support for Windows 7 is now
over for security software updates and
other reasons it's time to stop
procrastinating make sure that you move
to Windows 10 if you're gonna stick on
the Windows platform Microsoft support
for Windows 7 has officially ended and
this shouldn't come as a surprise to
Windows users Microsoft promised just 10
years of product support when Windows 7
was released back in October 20 2009
you believe it's been that long and now
they've shifted to newer technologies as
of January 14th Microsoft is no longer
offering technical assistance or
software updates to your device and the
company has encouraged people to upgrade
to Windows 10 to keep their PCs and
laptops secure your Windows 7 computer
will keep working but Microsoft will not
provide any security updates or fixes or
even technical support for any issues
that leaves your computer at greater
risk for viruses and malware that may
circulate to take advantage of any of
the flaws that are later discovered
that's why it's important for you to
switch to an OS that is newer security
vulnerabilities are discovered for the
discontinued OS and hackers will create
tools to exploit those vulnerabilities
but Microsoft will not patch those
issues without security updates or fixes
you're putting your computer and other
devices on your network at risk if
you're a Windows 8.1 user extended
support for that OS won't end until
January 2023 Windows 10 was released in
2015 and extended support for the latest
version of the OS is until 2025 this
could also be an excellent time for you
to try out Linux I gotta throw that in
there right while an upgrade to Windows
10 might require you to upgrade your
hardware to Linux could breathe new life
into your existing computer you can
remove the discontinued Windows 7 and
replace it with Ubuntu or Linux Mint
absolutely free alright let's get into
the top stories that we're following
this week first of all PayPal has
attacker the researcher Alex Burson
discovered the high severity
vulnerability when he was exploring the
main authentication flow at Pape
his attention was drawn to the fact that
javascript file contained what looked
like a cross-site request forgery token
and a session ID he says quote providing
any kind of session data inside a valid
JavaScript file usually allows it to be
received by attackers end quote if a
user fails to login several times
pardon me they have to solve a CAPTCHA
at that point and once they finally
authenticate and PayPal noted quote the
exposed tokens were used in the post
request to solve the CAPTCHA PayPal said
quote if a user followed a login link
from a malicious site similar to a
phishing page unquote that's all it
takes
follow a link from a site login to your
PayPal account you're done however
Burson said in the real world of social
engineering attacks quote the only user
interaction needed would have been a
single visit to an attacker controlled
web page and that's the end of the quote
within 24 hours of the bugs confirmation
by the hacker one bug bounty program
PayPal had patched the vulnerability
bearson said while he was rewarded with
a bug bounty worth about fifteen
thousand three hundred dollars u.s. and
the thing that we have to keep in mind
here ok so this is an exploit that is on
a site like PayPal so if you followed a
link and created that session cookie
that could have been compromised
I mean you click on that link in a
phishing scam email right and you think
oh well this is a phishing scam I'm
gonna back away wolf it's too late
you didn't even log in and it's too late
that's what we're up against here so any
of your staff who has access to your
PayPal account now clicked on that link
and has that session cookie in place
from a malicious and malicious site and
then later
gently logs into PayPal after having
gone through the capture process I guess
that's the the exploit itself you have
to fail the login a couple times and
then when you get it right that's when
the hacker gets your credentials well
you know how does that affect me and how
can I prevent that from happening I
think it really comes back to password
managers because you think how how do
you enter the wrong password for PayPal
three times to the point where you need
to enter a CAPTCHA you're probably
typing it in and if you're typing in
your password to PayPal it's probably
too easy if you can remember your
password to PayPal it's too easy can you
remember your password to PayPal if I
sent you to PayPal calm right now would
you be able to login by typing your
username and password if that's the case
you are a potential victim you are
easily exploited through this type of
attack I don't know my credentials for
PayPal my password manager ensures that
my password for PayPal is so obscure and
so secure that even I don't know it when
I go to paypal.com I log into my
password manager with my secure password
which is a password recipe and then it
enters it fills in the information for
PayPal so that I can log in if you're
not doing it that way then you are wide
open to this type of vulnerability and I
need to encourage you that hey you need
to understand the value of a password
manager it's not about oh can I remember
my passwords that's not what it's about
it's about being able to create
passwords for sites like PayPal where
your money resides where they have
access to your checking account and your
credit card
it's about having passwords that are so
secure that even you don't know them
that's the key point about a password
manager a vulnerability in broad coms
cable modem firmware has left as many as
200 million home broadband gateways in
Europe and potentially more worldwide at
risk of remote hijacking a vulnerable
user would simply have to visit a
website or even open an HTML file that
contains malicious JavaScript this code
subsequently it connects to the web
server built into the vulnerable modem
on the local network the script then
alters the contents of the modems
processor registers by overwriting the
stack to redirect execution to malware
smuggled in by the request at that point
the code can attempt man-in-the-middle
attack which allows the hacker to gain
access for example to potentially
sensitive information sent to or from
the users internet connection the
miscreant can also use the exploit to
manipulate the firmware change DNS
settings to redirect connections to web
pages and they can redirect to anything
of their choosing so no doubt phishing
versions of every bank and social media
site would be something that they would
think of they can snoop on traffic
launched distributed denial of service
assaults and more in other words this is
a bad one once exploited an attacker can
use the modem to do pretty much anything
they want
Broadcom says that the exploit code was
patched last May but it seems clear that
the fix was not widely adopted by users
in their tests the cable haunt team were
able to compromise a large number of
Sageman comm Netgear Technicolor and
Compal models for instance
since Broadcom chips are in many brands
of routers and modems it's important for
you to make sure that your firmware is
up-to-date so that you don't get
compromised now that the exploit is
known to hackers
[Music]
has begun selling the rack-mountable
variant of its Mac Pro desktop computer
starting at just 6500 dollars the
rack-mounted Mac Pro is identical to the
tower version in terms of specifications
and it comes in the same hardware
configurations as well it has the same
ports it's laid out the same inside the
case and it has the same rear
connections the differences from the
tower variant are entirely in the case
itself this variant of the Mac Pro 4
goes the wheels or stands of the tower
model in favor of stainless steel rails
that allow the device to be mounted
horizontally in server racks it also has
a removable lid instead of the fully
removable frame seen in the tower
additionally the handles are on the
front for easy removal from server racks
and some other elements like the power
button have been moved from the tower
top to the front rack this Mac Pro is
intended for inclusion in render farms
as a server and other commercial and
professional uses I could certainly see
in the render farm I mean I work in
video all the time so having something
that's able to do my rendering that's
that powerful but does it have to be a
Mac could it be a Linux machine with
blender running that would be sweet
let's let's go that route the pine phone
oh you knew I was gonna get here didn't
you
fine 64 let's just take a moment the
pine phone is an affordable Linux smart
phone created by pine 64 the makers of
the pine butt Pro laptop the rock pro 64
and pine 64 single board computers the
pine phone specs
price and design are all tailored
towards keeping it a super low 149
dollars so that puts it in a spot all
its own the pine phone is built for
Linux enthusiasts and developers who can
appreciate its privacy
focus and open source software don't
expect it though to be on par with the
latest and greatest smartphone right the
goal with the pine phone is to provide a
reliable open and hackable smartphone
platform powered by Linux the Braveheart
Edition is available now and it's
intended for enthusiasts and early
adopters only we'll call it a first pass
patch it does not ship with Linux
installed you'd have to actually do that
yourself from one of the better builds
that are available and the handset has a
few differences to the final run units
mainly related to the antenna and the
placement of the 2g signals soon the
pine phone will be available as a
complete phone preloaded with a Linux
based mobile operating system there's no
specific release date but as soon as
there is we'll be sure to let you know
so make sure you subscribe and click the
bell to receive notifications big thanks
this week - Roy W Nash and our community
of viewers for submitting stories to us
thank you for watching the category-five
dot TV newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your favorite tech
news with a slight Linux bias and if you
appreciate what we do please become a
patron of this particular segment of the
show it's patreon.com slash newsroom
please show us some love there that
would mean a lot from the category-five
TV newsroom I'm Robbie Ferguson filling
in for Sasha regular
