cheese doc I saw a fox at all oh my gosh
Oh everyone how's it going my name is
Henry or Marty or whatever it is would
you like some lemons
my name is life I would like some lemons
and I can make some lemonade I don't
understand why is life giving us lemons
this week we're gonna be looking at some
really cool well a really cool device
called the PI Voyager it is perhaps the
ultimate Raspberry Pi UPS it's got a
whole bunch of great features will be
showing you that also I'm going to show
you how to solder headers to your PCB
stick around recordings are trusted only
to solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 TV category
5 TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here cat 5 TV
slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB welcome to category 5
technology TV I don't know what to say
what do you say geez duck
I don't home I want a howl but I'm like
no that's not what the Fox says oh jeez
duck I did I checked a reference and
what is that what Oh what have you
brought us would you like some lemons
mmm you can say that life gives you
lemons when life gives you well welcome
to the show everybody I apologize that
my microphone sounds a little bit
horrible because I am inside this this
it's like being inside of my head
hey this is we've got a really fun show
planned for you it is of course our
Halloween special every year we we do
this and we've got some great things
planned for you including we're gonna be
doing some soldering we're gonna be
doing we're gonna be looking at the
Raspberry Pi and are you ready for this
Marty McFly the ultimate battery backup
for Raspberry Pi Fox just gave me
amazing news everybody
now also this is the first five week of
season 13 correct and with season 13 the
fifth Wednesday of every every month is
prize Wednesday so the fifth Wednesday
Oh so that's a rare and fabulous
occasion yes so you've got a chance to
win a prize this week you want to stick
around for all the details on how you
can participate in that before we get
into it though folks I want to remind
you please subscribe to us on YouTube
and click that little bell and that's
gonna allow you to get notifications
anytime we are live or when we post new
and exciting videos it's really hard to
breathe but your costume is epic it is
true he's really the winner everybody
take it take a screenshot now because I
don't know if I'm gonna make it to the
end of the show but I have to talk and
breathe
for over an hour yeah really comfortable
oh yeah
okay so I'll tell you what for those of
you who are interested in participating
in our draw you know I'm just gonna fade
to black I'm gonna come back because I
need to grab I don't see oh here it is
exactly it saw me use this last week it
is a Raspberry Pi wireless keyboard I
call it a Raspberry Pi wireless keyboard
but really it works with any device
whether whether it's your Android TV box
or any single board computer it's
wireless not bluetooth that means it has
a wireless dongle that plugs into the
USB which means you can use it yeah
regardless of setting anything up it
just works we're giving one of these
away all you have to do is get into our
discord live if you're watching live
check out you'll see prized week and all
you have to do is go in there and let us
know where you're watching from and
you're gonna be entered now it's it's
open to the first 14 entrance oh just 14
of you see your chances of winning this
keyboard is one in 14 yeah gotta go guys
we're gonna be drawing that in about 15
minutes time to stick around okay so I'm
gonna get over to our unboxing table and
what we're doing this week is I'm going
to be showing you how to solder headers
onto a PCB it's needed because sometimes
when you order a PCB it it comes with
the headers separated from the circuit
board itself so whether it's an Arduino
part or whatever it is you may need to
do a little bit of soldering so we're
gonna look at how to properly do that
and for that I'm gonna have to head over
to our our special table over here where
I've got some soldering equipment set up
what I have here on my soldering station
there's a couple of things that you
absolutely
need of course we're gonna need some
solder this is lead-free solder
electronic solder that I'm using and I
really recommend that you just grab one
of these from the dollar stores just to
like a wire mesh for cleaning but it's
great for cleaning the tip of your hot
soldering iron if you get some solder on
there you're gonna be able to clean that
off really really easily and then of
course you're gonna need a soldering
iron as well which I've got heating up
right now and what happens is we end up
with a PCB now I'm using just a blank
PCB prototyping board for the sake of
the demonstration but you're gonna end
up with things like circuit boards that
you have to be able to solder the
headers on to and it can be really
really tricky I mean you can try to use
helping hands and put that on there but
you know what do what do you do like
it's all wobbly it's gonna fall all over
the place and it's really really hard in
that so then you try to hold it and
you're trying to hold solder and you're
trying to solder it like this
and you're burning yourself and it's
it's just a mess so my little tip for
you here and one of my little tricks is
to grab yourself a pack like this and
this box is just a box full of which
you're never going to be able to close
I'm gonna tell you what once you've
bought it and opened it you're never
gonna be able to close it again it just
comes with a whole bunch of prototyping
boards it comes with some headers and
these are great for like just to add to
your kit anyways but what you can do
with that is grab a little bit of glue
and glue a header onto your circuit
board and then solder the other edge the
back end and then create do the opposite
header so we've got two types of headers
here we've got a female and a male okay
so I've put them on there like this for
a reason so this now it just looks like
a useless PCB but it's in fact a really
great tool for me to solder headers so
now if we were to pretend that I've got
a circuit board here that has arrived in
the mail that I've ordered off of
wherever off of Amazon or wherever I've
ordered my PCB from and it came with
let's say this header here
this is pretty common so we've got this
this header that is going to allow me to
plug this into whatever else er maybe
it's got a Raspberry Pi header that's
going to allow me to put this on to a
Raspberry Pi so well how do I solder
that on so my little trick here with my
board that I've created which is a very
very helpful tool I'm gonna take a
header like this and plug it in then I'm
gonna take a header like this and plug
it in and what that does is it gives me
a stable place to be able to do my
soldering so now I've got my circuit
board and remember what we're actually
soldering on here is this guy okay so in
this particular example and this is just
an example okay I'm gonna plug this into
my header and now I've got a nice solid
place to put my board the reason that
I've placed this here too is because and
the reason that I've got this soldered
on here is because now I've got a stable
standoff to be able to put my PCB on so
that it's not gonna wobble alright
so it's a little bit of a hacky little
trick but now when I put my PCB on let's
let's do something crazy let's put it on
like this and we're gonna pretend that
that's the way that this particular PCB
is going to go so you see what I've done
is I've actually put the headers on here
so that I so that they're sticking out
and these headers are also sticking out
of the board maybe they won't be and you
can adjust that as needed but it's
basically just giving me something to
stand it on so they're just gonna sit
nice and solid so now with that on there
I don't have to monkey with any glue or
anything like that I can just kind of
put something up against it and it gives
nice support so now all I have to do is
we're gonna heat up the what I'm gonna
do because I'm right-handed I'm gonna be
going from left to right reason I want
to do that is if I start on the right
I'm going to be moving left and I'm
going to be still heating up these
joints on the right I want to move from
my left to my right because I'm
right-handed if you're left-handed
you're gonna do the exact opposite my
soldering iron is good and hot I've got
it set to 400 degrees Celsius right now
so I'm gonna start on my left hand side
and what I'm going to do is I'm going to
touch the kind
we're the PCB meets the the pen and I'm
not using flux here today but you may
want to use flux if this is a
electronics PCB if if you think it's
needed it's not always needed in this
case we don't really need it because
we're gonna be very very quick and part
of this is being quick so I want to get
this in here and I want to touch it in
there to get heat to the joint and then
very quickly touch my solder and then
lift up okay so that creates a really
nice joint right there so now this is
connected to that header now I'm going
to move to the next one
heat it up put the solder in there right
at the corner where it's touching and
lift up and now I've got a really nice
joint right there next to it I'm gonna
do the same over here this is why we
don't need flux I'm not gonna be
touching here for any longer now my
solder got stuck there you see what
happened oh yeah I'm bringing that back
camera so no so did you see how I very
quickly got my soldering iron out of
there because I don't want to damage the
board I don't want to oxidize it or
cause any problems so now I've got this
problem where I've got this salt or
stuck to it so all I need to do is just
really quickly now that it's cooled I'm
gonna just touch there and bring that
solder out of there and now start again
and get it in there and boom
[Music]
and what I'm doing is I'm lifting up to
be able to get a really nice soldering
joint there all right so now I'm gonna
grab here again touching the corner
where they where the two surfaces meet
and bringing my solder in and lift final
joint heating it up just a little bit
for just a couple of seconds and lift
and now I'm gonna get in here and show
you the joints where are they where are
we and focus so you do have some really
good contacts so you see how these ones
I've not soldered these are just
standoffs just for support so now when I
lift this off now my headers are
perfectly attached so this is just a
great little tool to create and use and
then I'm gonna be able to solder these a
lot more easily mm-hmm ah real quick no
flux necessary in this particular case
if now I might have wanted some flux
because I got a little bit hot on the
one joint there but as long as you're
careful you should be okay if you do
need a little bit of flux so if you're
finding that hey maybe that joint was
getting a little bit too hot I could add
a little bit of flux to that just
because my solder is a flux rosin core
rosin core it's gonna it's gonna help
things there so there you go that is
super good nice and solid yes alright so
the reason I show you that is we're
gonna be looking at a PI Voyager I have
it right here it's all set up and ready
to go a hole and this is there it is
well this is something where okay so
this one arrives and you've got a solder
forty join us okay we're gonna be
looking at this right after the break
stick around
or a5 technology TV you guys should be
doing all the talking because this is
like really echoey in here what give
away these are wireless keyboards that
can be used for your Android TV for your
anything with USB so Raspberry Pi it's
perfect any single board computer it's
absolutely perfect you don't have to
configure anything you just plug in the
USB dongle and go so we've got our prize
wheel here from category 5 TV here we go
ok so who do we have
Bob Kay 54 we've got Dennis Kelly no man
5 you read for boo Rd Blair is that
sweet yes gee Swiss Swiss aghh
Albuquerque turkey skywriter 64 f king
Ronnie cat Bob both wait did we do Bob
yet we got it so this is our first time
doing prize week here on category 5 TV
so if we're ready oh we got another one
yes excellent we got gas 5850 are you
watching for me yeah I'm Austin Texas
nice 5850
Austin which I might spell wrong Texas
all right
we have this
keyboard
ah
Albuquerque turkey you have to do
Albuquerque turkey is send us your
mailing address and we get that sent to
you very very soon gratulations there we
go and now next time there's a fifth
Wednesday in the month yeah we shall
have another it's coming back exactly so
that's how prize week works here at
category five TV if you'd like to win
all you have to do is be here for the
fifth Wednesday of every single month
well where there is five Wednesdays
right sometimes there's only four mostly
so look at your calendar if you see five
Wednesday's be there we're here means
that it's a three pay month for me
whenever there's a okay so we're gonna
take a look at the PI Voyager I'm gonna
strip off this mask so that I can
breathe so that I can speak and so that
I can actually show you this amazing
device I'm gonna head over to the table
and Sasha can speak properly nice all
right so this is the PI Voyager so what
I've done is I've done the soldering
joints for the 40-pin on the Raspberry
Pi and and incidentally I had to also
adapt my battery this battery okay so
let's just kind of think about what this
is this is a ups for your Raspberry Pi
so that's battery backup so my Raspberry
Pi right now you can see is powered on
you guys can see that yes if I unplug
the USB power from this mmm-hmm my my
Raspberry Pi is still powered on yes
excellent plug that back in
so my so this is much more affordable
than any UPS that I've found and in fact
has a lot more features it is I squared
C compatible so it has some capabilities
here like being able to communicate with
the Raspberry Pi through I squared C so
that you can set up programs to be able
to do certain things whenever the power
goes out or when the battery is is low
or whatever you want to do so I
mentioned that I had to that I had to do
some soldering for my battery now what
this is
I bought this battery this is 33,000
milliamp hours 3.7 volts so I just
picked this up off the internet and the
the pin here for the connector was
incorrect so I needed to get a jst
connector for two millimeters because
the one that was connected to my battery
by default was a one point two
millimeter so keep that in mind you need
either one two millimeter in order to
connect it directly or you could solder
it directly to the board there's extra
headers there in my case I wanted to be
able to unplug it and plug it in really
quickly so I simply spliced here and the
polarity was different so you see how I
go from black to red from red to black
it's because the polarity was different
I actually have where you see black
going into the the PI Voyager is
positive even though it is a black cable
it's coming off the red off the battery
so I mentioned that this is a 3000
milliamp hour battery 3.7 volts that I
got from I actually bought this one from
Hart Colonel they were blowing them out
for a dollar a dollar holy Wow and and
and so you can get batteries quite cheap
and it doesn't come with the PI Voyager
the PI Voyager comes in two parts you
get the circuit board the PCB and you
get the headers of course category 5 TV
has a tutorial for how to solder headers
which could be very helpful for you if
you need to be able to solder that on
and that's what connects it to your
Raspberry Pi so you'll notice my
Raspberry Pi is not connected to power
on the board itself the power is coming
in through the GPIO through the PI
Voyager and is powering that I've got a
little button here that I can program to
do whatever like powering off
for powering on or suspending things
like that I've got a couple of LEDs here
I can see that the the power is
currently good which means so PG means
power good which means the USB is
providing five volts power to the PI
Voyager the blinking light that you see
there under CH that means that it is
currently charging my lipo battery
that's the lithium polymer so that
battery that is connected the one that I
changed the cable on that is currently
being charged and can I ask you once
that's fully charged how long it would
laugh how long it will last hours seven
hours upon hours okay now I'm gonna jump
over so you guys have seen enough I mean
it there's not a lot to see here that
you can't see on their website and of
course you can get one of these a cat5
TV /pi Voyager I'm gonna jump onto the
camera without my mask even though this
is the Halloween special just so that I
can yeah Sasha what I did is I I charged
it overnight yeah and then I unplugged
it this morning and left it in my van
and then I checked on it every couple of
hours and it was still powered on that's
awesome and now when I left work at so I
started it on the battery at 7:00 a.m.
yeah when I left work at 3:30 p.m. it
was off it had powered off okay so
somewhere in between there but like
probably in the last couple of hours of
the day so I got several hours of
battery time so more than enough yeah
but realistically though what I need out
of my out of my battery backup for my
Raspberry Pi really what I need is one
thing Henry what do you need I need it I
need my Raspberry Pi to stop fryin SD
cards right that's kind of important as
Barry PI are known if there are power
situations like power brownouts or if
your power adapter doesn't provide full
voltage all the time yeah
it will fry the SD card and that's just
a that's a problem with raspberry PI's
and it's something that we all come to
expect and except with a Raspberry Pi
microcomputer but realistically you
don't have to yeah I just don't want
that I don't want to be discarding what
would have been a good SD card oh yeah
totally they're super cheap Henry I mean
like I can buy it not after 20 times but
like a 16 gig kingston card is like five
to eight dollars on amazon canadian so
that's like you know that's not much so
but but really i mean it's like why am i
doing discarding SD cards and why am i
potentially losing data that's what I
require I want consistent power so when
I unplug the Raspberry Pi I want it to
keep going I wanted to keep operating
but imagine this so I can I can have my
little Raspberry Pi working yeah and
then I can unplug it and take it
somewhere else and plug it in there and
it never goes down between point a and
point B or for a weather station that is
powered by solar for example you've got
power constantly to the Raspberry Pi
whether or not you've got power coming
off of the the solar panels so there's
all kinds of benefits to this but for me
personally it's like just in my server
room where my Raspberry Pi resides I
want that consistent power so that I'm
not burning through those SD cards so a
couple of quick points about this I mean
I consider this probably the best UPS
that you can get for a Raspberry Pi
couple of reasons for that one it's more
affordable mmm-hmm and that's not what I
would weigh as what makes it the best
but when you consider that it is more
affordable than the competition if you
will that the other products that are on
the market and then consider that it has
the I squared C it also has GPIO
watchdog as well and I'm going to be
showing you a little bit about that it
has a safe shut down triggering based on
the programming so it will actually at
3.1 volts so if the battery drops below
three point one volts or somewhere
around there because normally is about
three point three in it up it it brings
it up to 5 volts to be able to power the
PI
yeah but if the battery drops to 3.1 or
below or below 3.1 it will actually do a
safe shutdown if you code it to do so oh
wow because remember it's programmable
yep so then it doesn't so there we go
yeah so it's not like it just suddenly
kills the power yes it will but you can
add programming to say okay let's just
like I'll just explain how this works so
when the PI Voyager detects that it has
dropped below three point one volts so
basically it's saying the battery is no
longer powerful enough or has enough
charge to power a Raspberry Pi at five
volts so at this point it starts
counting down from 60 seconds once it
reaches zero it will kill the power
unless within that sixty seconds you
have a script running which you would
yeah that says okay save my work send me
an email that says that the powers off
also ready for this set a watchdog a
alarm to automatically power back on the
Raspberry Pi once power comes back to
the USB and then do a safe shutdown now
so I can actually sequence those code
those into my script so that it will do
all of those things with the PI Voyager
yes it's completely programmable and
being I squared C it communicates back
with the Raspberry Pi and you can decide
how you want it to behave that is
fabulous
should I jump over to my computer I want
to jump over here see if I can kind of
show you how things look so let's get on
there okay so here we go I'm gonna go
well let's first of all I need to set up
the software right yeah that's square
one and I know that the hardware is
connected here let's get the software
installed so I need to go curl so opt
install curl if you don't already have
it curl - capital o for output this file
HTTP colon slash slash wwm load comm
/downloads slash
Voyageur tar.gz so what I'm actually
downloading is the program that's going
to allow me to communicate through I I
squared C with that board so let's untie
that file there we go
so now I have a file called PI Voyager
and if I run it with the command status
it's gonna show me that hey it's
currently power good mm-hmm PG we
already learned that one right and it is
currently charging and where the battery
is sitting at four point one six volts
so what I want to do now is I want to
actually put that in my path so that I
never have a problem with this
now I've downloaded it to my temp folder
I want to actually move that file PI
Voyager and we're gonna put that into my
path in SE user local bin and I'm gonna
force that because I know it's already
there because I already installed it to
test earlier so there we go so now no
matter where I am if I type PI Voyager
status I can see that state excellence
right so so it's currently charging now
watch what's gonna happen so I'm gonna
actually run this in watch so there you
go see how it's currently charging okay
I want you to tell me now as I walk over
to the PI Voyager and Sasha can you
change to the overhead camera here for a
second I can all right
transition now you can see what I'm
actually going to do is I'm going to
pull this cable from the PI Voyager ok
switch back to to the laptop I'm gonna
pull it three two one pull and watch
what happens this church is actually
discharging so fancy that is but
remember I'm still communicating with
the Raspberry Pi mm-hmm yeah right so
Henry if you push ctrl C on my laptop
it's gonna intro see yeah so you're
actually see you're still on the PI but
Sasha switch back ok the overhead camera
I'm really making them work tonight okay
I'm powering this not from usb there's
no power going to the right of this
device
it's from the battery let's let's unplug
the HDMI
okay so I have two things plugged into
my Raspberry Pi right now mm-hmm I have
a battery into the PI Voyager the PI
Voyager is of course plugged into the
GPIO and I just simply have Ethernet and
Henry if you switch back to a laptop
close you're gonna see if you type like
LS okay you're gonna see that yeah it's
responding yeah there you go hit enter
yeah wait wait wait wait yes yeah see
you still never get around all right so
now press the up arrow to bring it back
to the watch press up arrow again a
couple times until you see there you go
and now i'm gonna plug back in the power
to my PI Voyager here we go three two
and if I can line it up one it's in
there you go now it says it immediately
switches to charging mode so because we
know that it's communicating yeah and
it's responding with this information
now we can program it to do things how
do we want it to respond to these things
so if you head over to their website I'm
gonna jump back to my laptop here let's
jump on to Chrome and I'm again I'm
gonna have all these links for you so
check the description below if you're
watching this online otherwise go to our
website category five dot TV and you'll
be able to pick up on all that stuff so
I'm gonna actually go to arms low comm
slash and it is at articles /pi Voyager
- installation and tutorial if I type
all that right there we go we're there
so here you're gonna see a couple of
them can we switch over to it oh yeah
she keeps me in check folks there you go
there you go so I'm there and here we've
got some information there and and some
of the things that we've been through
and however if you scroll down a little
bit here Henry you see this script here
as an example
see how simply this can be done so if I
just zoom in a little bit here to show
you
I'm gonna bring this over for yes there
you go there so all this is is it's a
loop so while true do this and we're
gonna check PI voyager status flags and
we're looking for what PG what's that
stand for
power power good good yeah are good well
done so with power good it's going to do
what its gonna sleep for five seconds
it's gonna do nothing it's just gonna
sit there and it's just gonna and it's
actually gonna keep doing that because
this is a loop so as long as power is
good it's just gonna keep looping
however the UPS Script continues on so
the only time it's going to break out of
that loop is if power is not good
because grep is going to say no this
didn't happen hmm so then it's gonna
break out of here and it's gonna say we
are now running on battery save your
work and will initiate a shutdown in 30
seconds then it sleeps for 30 seconds it
waits gives time for you to be able to
shut things down and then it shuts down
the power unless power becomes good
again within those 30 seconds so if
power becomes good it will say oh no
power is good again so we'll just break
and return to our original loop however
if power did not come good it's gonna go
oh no no this is power was restored if
it did not get restored then it's going
to break out of this loop and it's gonna
say okay what does it can do check this
out this is what's so cool and I just
want to show you this real quick before
we get into code in this for you PI
Voyager this is the executive all that
we just created enable power wake up so
wake up after the power comes good from
USB so if so we're gonna shut down now
but if power comes back on
mmm-hmm turn back on again good that's
all part of this device next step
watchdog 25 what that means is okay the
PI Voyager is gonna do something unique
when you turn off your Raspberry Pi
normally it's still trickle pulling
electricity it's still wasting
electricity there's still a draw there
the PI Voyager however with this
watchdog 25 will say after 25 seconds so
remember 30 seconds has already gone by
yes
another 25 seconds regardless of what
happens I'm gonna kill all power to the
Raspberry Pi that means we're gonna be
using zero nothing is going to be used
by the Raspberry Pi now presumably if
USB comes back on it's going to start
charging the battery then the software
enable power - wake up is going to wake
it back up again and then we're gonna
start drawing again as it is it's going
to kill all the power so that it's not
drawing from the battery at that point
right yes and then the next step the
final step in this particular sample
script is shut down now so what that
does is it safely powers off the
Raspberry Pi so powers been out for you
know a couple of hours the battery has
depleted to three point one volts and it
says okay I'm gonna do a couple of
things I'm going to tell it to wake up
when power comes back and I'm gonna tell
it to automatically power off all power
after the next 25 seconds but I'm gonna
turn it off now safely yes nice no micro
SD cards were hurt yes in the creation
of this Oh
all right so jumping back to my laptop
here I'm gonna head over to my own
github github.com slash cat 5 TV slash
and forget about the I'm pushing
backspace a bunch of times look at the
the address bar instead cat five dot TV
slash let's bring this down here for you
PI Voyager and in the PI Voyager
repository you'll see that I have an
examples folder and within the examples
folder there's one called
State Mon as an example so let's bring
up the raw script there so that I can
copy this to my to my Raspberry Pi so
I've copied the URL to that statement
program let's go into my temp folder
just just for kicks for now I can put
this anywhere that I want but let's
double you get that from github and then
I'm gonna make it executable and then
run it and what does it say same kind of
thing it's it's just like watch it's
saying hey currently we're powered we're
running on USB
and the battery is charging now if I
pull that cable again so this is and I
want to show you this it looks like it's
the same thing but it's not
I'm gonna pull about the USB so now it's
been pulled
mm-hm and now my script is running every
five seconds there you go so now it says
that it has changed to battery and it's
this is the current state okay now I'm
gonna plug it back in and it's gonna
switch to USB and it's gonna say that
it's charging eventually it's gonna say
fully charged it's done and it's
finished well okay so it actually lets
you know that's nice
well that script will so and this is why
I wanted to just demonstrate this
particular script because we're not just
watching the status yeah this is an
actual program that I've quickly written
just to give you a little bit of a
sample so let's open that up so this is
statement from the repository so you see
a couple of things really really quick
first of all I've created a quick check
state function so I can run that any
time well there we go
mmm there it is check state simply grabs
pie Voyager status flags and checks for
power good if power is good which means
USB is powering it the state is USB if
not the state is battery okay and it's
going to return that and then if the now
old state don't worry about it it simply
this prevents it from outputting every
five seconds hmm
so what matters to you scrolling down a
little ways here if the state is USB
then here's what we want to know
check the status status of the battery
and if the status changes run this so if
we're on power right now we want to do
these things so let's put in echo hello
there No okay this could be send me an
email that power is back this can be any
command that I want this can be send a
notification to my NEMS server this can
be send something to the log that says
power is back online
but I like the idea of an email that's
gonna let me know now if I go back down
to
here notice I've added some comments
here place your commands within this
this is when it switches to battery mode
so echo hello this is on battery just
pretend okay mm-hmm
let's send send an email okay so
anything that I put in here it's going
to do so if I if I do a mail command and
send an actual email in that moment it
will happen so now if I run that here
statement okay now if I jump back here
and I'm going to unplug that and the
state is going to change here we go
three two one and it's got a 5 second
timer so see how it says hello this is
on battery let's send an email so what I
have done there is I've added something
to the the functionality of this board
yeah just with a simple quick line there
you go
plug it back in USB is in now says hello
there so whatever you want to program in
yeah it can become a part of this UPS
that's incredible set that up is a
script that's always running and
whatever you need to do I think it's a
great idea to set up a safe shutdown
sequence notify your administrators
those kinds of things if it's a server
and and shutdown whatever tasks or
unmount I scuzzy volume so they don't
have corrupt files true all those kinds
of things can happen in this script and
that's just a sample just a really
really quick sample so just finally when
you have that so type PI Voyager help
this is going to give you all the
commands that are available to you and
any of these can be added into your
program so alarm clear date I haven't
even touched on some of the features of
this it's it adds a real-time clock to
your raspberry pi now one of the other
failings of the Raspberry Pi is there's
no RTC right so now you have one
it built into this particular the PI
Voyager and so it will store the the
correct date and time and and you can
call on that or set it just using this
command
you've got the I squared C watchdog
you've got the GPIO you've got timers to
wake it up you've got alarms to wake it
up if you want to wake it up your
Raspberry Pi every day at 10 a.m. you
can do that if you want to shut it down
but automatically reboot it after 25
seconds or five minutes or whatever you
want to do you can add that and the pi
Voyager will take care of it for you
well so look through these commands look
through the documentation as well mm-hmm
and you're gonna find a boatload of
information on arms low comm of course
pick up a PI Voyager at cap five dot TV
slash PI Voyager if you want and it is
just fantastic but it is as I mentioned
at the top of this it's less expensive
than the competing Raspberry Pi UPS's
but has a boatload of features and
because it yeah because it can
communicate back to bosh or whatever
Linux language you're using you can you
can program it to do whatever you want
it's of your power and stuff so
fantastic product once again for mom's
low and and definitely check those out
again and submit your PRS I'd love to
see what examples you come up with to
make this work for for your environment
I can only imagine actually some cool
stuff out there already yeah it's gonna
be yes that I I'm just blown away by I
love this kind of stuff I love being
able to get a tinkerer and create and
it's so because these boards are
available it's such a exceptional price
point you're able to get started and
tinker and play around and hey make your
Raspberry Pi a heck of a lot better by
adding an RTC and we backup and all of
the watchdog features and everything
else then you don't have to buy SD cards
in public any longer yeah nice and burn
through them oh well we've got a head
over to the news room so Sasha if you
are ready I am here's what's coming up
in the category 5 TV newsroom Robby
called at last week when
he said we may start to see legitimate
companies moving content on to the dark
web in light of recent government
sanctions
well now BBC News announced it has
launched a dark web tour mirror of its
new service the Bloodhound supersonic
car has completed its first drive across
the Hostin dry lake in South Africa two
reports published in the last few months
show that malware operators are
experimenting with using WAV audio files
to hide malicious code and Google built
an advanced computer that has achieved
quantum supremacy for the first time
surpassing the performance of
conventional devices stick around the
full details are coming up later in the
show this is the category 5 dot TV
newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories
Linux bias I'm Sasha Rickman and here
the top stories were following this week
Robbie called it last week when he said
we may start to see legitimate companies
moving content onto the dark web in
light of recent government sanctions
news service the tor browser is privacy
focused software used to access the dark
web the browser can obscure who is using
it and what that is being accessed which
could help people avoid government
surveillance and censorship in the BBC's
case it comes about as countries
including China Iran and Vietnam have
tried to block their citizens from
accessing the BBC News website or
programs instead of visiting bee-bees bc
co UK / news or BBC comm / news users of
the tor browser can visit the new BBC
news s news v2 the JTP s y u dot onion
website visiting this web address will
not work in a regular web browser the
dark web copy of the BBC news website
will be the International Edition as
seen from outside the UK
it will include foreign language
services such as BBC Arabic BBC Persian
and BBC Russian but UK only content and
services such as BBC iPlayer will not be
accessible due to broadcast rights so
you were right there you go whoa where
did Robbie go yeah so you absolutely
called it called it yeah and this will
happen with more more websites and more
I think so yeah this is just the first
of many I think it's great step in the
right direction
oh yeah especially for journalism right
because you have companies like CBC they
give directions to if you want to report
something like as a secret they instruct
you how to do tour but to have that
directly linked in to have their own
site that's
pretty cool yes so the way I see it is
right now the dark web has very dark
aura to it right people think of the
dark web as hackers malicious stuff
pornography and various things that you
know guns and drugs the dark web so
let's get some legitimate services on
the dark web to demonstrate that this is
a powerful technology that can be used
for good yeah they should have called it
something else it shouldn't have been
called the dark web it makes it sound
scary and shady they should have called
it like the alternate web it's poor yeah
yeah what if you don't like onions
tomato I love this I love it and I think
that we'll see a huge shift toward that
in in the next few weeks yeah yeah well
and what happens is government's
creating sanctions to say hey we're no
longer gonna do allow business from
United States to Venezuela right well
now with the dhobi cutting off access to
Venezuelan customers we've already paid
exactly the dark web is the correct
answer
exactly and BBC already sees that yeah
way to go BBC good job guys
I got push buttons here I'll probably
lose the mask for the rest of the show
it's kind of a good thing we don't have
an HR department yeah the bloodhound
supersonic car has completed its first
drive across a house key and dry lake in
South Africa pilot Andy green took the
jet powered vehicle on a gentle 100 mile
per hour shakedown test run on Friday
bloodhound is in northern Cape for high
speed trials as it works towards an
assault on the land speed record next
year that mark of 763 miles per hour was
set 22 years ago also by Andy green
the thrust SSC car thrust broke the
sound barrier in the process the first
and only car to have achieved the feat
bloodhound will be will be run at
progressively faster and faster speeds
in the coming days as engineers seek to
verify its design and the proper working
of a subsystems with a Eurofighter jet
engine on board it should be capable of
reaching 500 to 600 miles per hour this
year the addition of a rocket motor in
2020 ought to then take the car over 800
miles per hour Engineers will be looking
in particular at how much drag
bloodhound is producing in these trials
this will determine the level of thrust
that they will need from the rocket they
will also be checking that the
parachutes and brakes can bring the car
safely to a stop at the end of a
high-speed run up to a dozen runs or
plan between now and midnight with the
first six taking the speed up in steps
of 50 miles per hour I understand the
desire to do this but then I mean 80
greens already done it like I feel like
an hour well I'm just wondering because
like it's cool to say yeah fastest car
but I'm just wondering what's the
practical use of this like is there any
way that scientists are like we need a
fast car I mean like I would definitely
take this to work like if I got to work
in like 10 minutes like but to be honest
I think it'll just be the design well
because they're going to be checking to
see what causes drag they're probably
use that in designs for other vehicles
not land-based vehicle are you thinking
Mars perhaps maybe I just I think it's
just our Need for Speed it's like the
humans like we have to progress we have
to invent we have to get better and
better all the time
yeah I know I can understand the need to
have parachutes and such to slow down
after the speedrun yeah but it's wrong
during the speedrun there is no way
- correct I hope that they're putting
Andy won't know he wouldn't know and
that scares me like I'm I am NOT a risk
taker not like ya is the guy who started
his own web show yeah but that's that's
a that's a totally different kind of
thing like 800 miles and nothing does
yeah if you're in space sure but on land
in the desert with wheels as you're
keeping you on the ground not for high I
can imagine the feeling would be
incredible I don't ever want to feel it
okay we have to take a quick break the
crypto report and more of this week's
top tech stories are coming up don't go
anywhere
[Applause]
get into the crypto report for this week
as we look back at the past seven days
of cryptocurrency and as we record this
on October 30th 2019 this is how things
look so Bitcoin is a big gainer this
week like we're talking over $1700 per
coin in gain so it's sitting at nine
thousand one hundred ninety six sixty
nine US dollars Facebook libras still
not trading we also have litecoin
gaining nine dollars and six cents at
fifty eight dollars and 21 cents
aetherium also going up 183 48 up twenty
three dollars and change from just last
week well and Manero up at fifty eight
seventy two gaining six dollars and
twelve cents and for a coin that's only
worth fifty eight bucks a gain of six
dollars is quite a turn yeah then we've
got the very small micro coins like
Scala at 0.26 ten thousandth of a cent
and in fact turtle coin is tied at that
same value
really so at 0.26 ten thousandth of a
cent but turtle coin being a bigger
gainer because last week it was point
zero one ten thousandth of a sent down
from Scala and I'm not really sure where
scale is going we've seen some problems
with that coin because of the fact that
they've lost like they they had their
name was a trademark of someone else
so they renamed the coin and that and
this was originally stellite and then
they renamed it torque and then oh well
that's our trademark okay so now there's
Scala and so it's like okay this causes
a real like this is the only predictable
thing is that that causes a loss of
confidence in the coin yeah and people
don't really know what's what and we've
got to install new miners we've got to
learn the new codes and the new the new
symbols and and so I'm not really sure
where it's going but I do see turtle
coin slightly rising slow and steady you
never know I mean over time people will
forget those frequent name changes as
long as it
continue if it stood oh yeah and if it
sticks out like okay let's stick with
Scala let's say okay that's that's what
we are yeah it's not to spend too much
time on a micro coin but the micro coins
are really interesting because they're
so incredibly cheap like we're talking
yeah point two six ten thousandth of a
cent per coin yeah right so for me
they're far more accessible like all Joe
could say should have bought a Bitcoin
but really I mean I am far more likely
to mine turtle coin than I am you can
mine turtle yeah with consumer gear so
you don't need an ASIC you don't need a
server farm full of you use no you just
need a standard computer and you can
mine potentially thousands upon
thousands of turtle coins with standard
hardware because there's still a lot of
supply and they're really really cheap
yeah so now that said as we always worn
on the crypto report here at
category-five TV remember that the
cryptocurrency market is always changing
now we talk about Bitcoin is a big
gainer this week mm-hmm next week it
could go way down so I mean we've seen
it happen I mean Bitcoin was like 20,000
plus dollars per coin and then we're now
like last week we were down at 7,000 so
anyone who invested when it was 19 lost
big time so and I say that to warn you
that it's an incredibly volatile because
the market never closes it's 24/7 and it
can just go either direction at any
point so my recommendation if you're
gonna invest if you're gonna crypt
online or whatever you're gonna do to be
involved in cryptocurrency is only spend
what you can afford to lose that's the
only safe way to be involved in the
crypto market sash I'm gonna throw it
back to you for our news stories this
week excellent to reports published in
the last few months show that malware
operators are experimenting with using
WAV audio files to hide malicious code
the technique is known as stenography
the art of hiding information in plain
sight in another data medium in the
software field sonography also referred
to as stego is used to describe the
process of hiding files or a text in
another file of a different format for
example a hiding plain text inside and
images binary
format using stenography has been
popular with malware operators for more
than a decade malware authors don't use
stenography to breach or infect systems
but rather as a transfer method
stenography allows files hiding
malicious code to bypass security
software that white lists non executable
file formats such as multimedia files
all previous instances where malware
used sonography revolved around using
image file formats such as ping or jpg
the novelty in the new of the two
recently published reports is the use of
WAV audio files and not seen abused in
malware operations until this year the
first of these two new malware campaigns
of using WAV files was bat reported back
in June Symantec security researchers
said they spotted a Russian cyber
espionage group known as water bug or
Turla using WAV files to hide and
transfer malicious code from their
servers who already infected victims the
second malware campaign was spotted this
month by blackberry silence
but while the Symantec report described
a nation-state cyber espionage operation
silence said they saw the wave
stenography technique being abused in a
run-of-the-mill crypto mining malware
operation silence said this particular
threat actor was hiding dll's inside WAV
audio files malware already presents on
the infected host would download and
read the wav file extract the DLL bit by
bit and then run it installing a
cryptocurrency miner application named
XMR rig this shows that your mundane
crypto mining malware authors are
growing in sophistication as they learn
from other operations wow that's hot
that's a hard one right because if you
go to a website and they have normal a
file yeah yeah there you go and you
can't stop that like unless if you want
to block everything yeah how would you
ever that's it you can't you can't block
WAV files and JPEGs and yeah things you
all like 1995 basic HTML sites right
like it's it's getting weird
so how do you block this and but
remember that stenography cannot infect
your system what can is that if you have
an app that is then able to decode the
hidden files within the stenographic
file that's where you run a problem so
how can that be a problem if you let's
say you deal with pirated software it's
quite likely that they would inject some
form of ability to open stenographic
data so for example let's say you have
Photoshop that's an illegal copy well
you're gonna open JPEG files or exactly
or maybe you've got a wave editor or you
know something like something so you
open the wave file with that editor and
suddenly you're infected that's just one
example but it could come from apps like
apps could enter the app store that are
advertising themselves as hey here's a
wave player for your phone right and if
you're not very careful of the file like
the apps that you install and where you
get them from then that can pose a
problem - yeah it just takes one right
yeah but you have to it has to have that
decoder in place in order to be able to
open the data that is hidden otherwise I
mean you open one of those those files
the wav files and it will play the audio
normally right you'll be able to edit it
in gold WAV normally or audacity but if
you have an app that reads the hidden
data that's right when you're in trouble
yeah I just feel like these malicious
players they're just like one little
step ahead right so you just see you
build yourself up and you get
comfortable with your security and
they're like did you think of that yeah
and that's tough because antivirus can't
stop that yeah and so it really comes
back down to be smart yes be careful and
realize that there are social
engineering tactics out there to trick
you into installing the app that they
want you to open the wav file with yeah
or the JPEG or whatever it is so yeah
I know it would be it would be so easy
to slip into that without having the
foresight to question it yeah yeah thank
be careful folks Google built an
advanced computer that has achieved
surpassing of the performance of
conventional devices scientists have
been working on quantum computers for
decades because they promise much faster
speeds now that speed has been realized
and it's mind-blowing there Sycamore
quantum processor was able to perform a
specific task in 200 seconds now get
ready for this
that same task would take the world's
best supercomputer ten thousand years to
complete in classical computers the unit
of information is called a bit and it
can have a value of either 1 or 0 but
it's equivalent in a quantum system the
qubit short for quantum bit can be both
1 and 0 at the same time this phenomenon
opens the door for multiple calculations
to be performed simultaneously but
qubits need to be synchronized using a
quantum effect known as entanglement
which Albert Einstein termed spooky
action at a distance however scientists
have struggled to build working devices
with enough qubits to make them
competitive with conventional types of
computer the word quantum computer is a
bit misleading because it sounds like a
computer and when people think of
computer they think of a phone or a
laptop the truth is the phone in the
laptop and even a very powerful
supercomputer all operate according to
the same fundamental rules and a quantum
computer is fundamentally different
the classical bit stores information as
a zero or one and a quantum bit can be
both zero and one at the same time if
you have two quantum bits then there are
four possible states that you can put in
superposition with three cubits that's
eight four cubits at 16 but grows
exponentially the nice thing about
quantum supremacy is that is this a very
well-defined engineering milestone in a
nut cell what we're trying to do is
we're trying to show that experimental
quantum computers can surpass the best
supercomputers in the world to actually
demonstrate quantum supremacy we have
these three steps first pick a circuit
second run it on the quantum computer
third simulate what the quantum computer
is doing on a classical computer we
gradually increase the complexity of
that circuit at some point it becomes
completely impossible for the classical
computer to keep up then we say we've
achieved quantum supremacy Sycamore
contains 54 qubits although one of them
didn't work during the tests - the
device ran on 53 qubits
professor professor Jonathan Oppenheim
from UCL who was not involved with the
latest study says quote it's an
interesting test it shows that they have
a lot of control over their device it
shows that they have low error rates but
it's nowhere near the kind of precision
we would need to have a full-scale
quantum computer end quote IBM which has
been working on quantum computers of its
own questioned some of Google's figures
saying quote this is in fact a
conservative worst-case estimate and we
expect that with additional refinements
of the classical cost of the simulation
can be reduced which can be further
reduced and quote IBM also calls some of
the excitement saying quote quantum
computers will never reign supreme over
classical computers but will rather work
in concert with them since they each
have their unique strengths end quote
that said this is a very exciting leap
in quantum computing and is destined to
lead to some incredible calculations
being performed in
seconds rather than millennia Wow
how sore loser we are she kinda comes
across that way it's alright it's
alright we could've done 400 it's cool I
you know what the part that this is why
I can never be like a quantum computing
scientist this is why folks listen up
this is gonna be 1 and 0 at the both at
the same time in binary because you're
either 1 or 0 how physics Asha physics
Albert Einstein said it's spooky yeah it
blows my brain I love it Wow we're
seeing such a shift in technology and
and it is pushing to towards something
new and what would that be used for I
look at n pu &amp; n pu
neural processing units blow my mind
right and IDM is correct like an NP u is
it's not a replacement for a CPU it's
something supplements it's so usually
when you have an NP you you also have a
CPU yeah but it does other things and it
does them really really fast so ni
encode video I use an MPEG encoder card
because mice it will do it faster than
my CPU right because that's or you think
about crypto mining with an ASIC well
you're using an ASIC specifically to
crypto mine at a faster rate so when
they find that hey what can this really
be used for and use it yeah that's my
boy I'll tell you what our passwords
aren't safe anymore
like brute forces group forces the
typically a computer would not be able
to brute force our password in a hundred
thousand years hmm can be done in
seconds
yeah yeah but now what security get
better as well because security could
also go through quantum computing can
cryptography go through quantum
computing or is that where the
blockchain and and quantum computing and
neural processing all come together and
say
you know in your face on IBM oh my gosh
but that like it's a it's like a
constant it's like a leapfrog like we
have to create cryptocurrency in order
to create Krita cryptography that is
blockchain based and secure yeah and
then the new processors come a quantum
computing that can now
well reverse all it's got to think how
this is gonna impact everyday life
though cuz if you go back in time when
computers are first like starting up you
know you have the binary system but now
what are cell phones and all these other
if we still have them what are they
gonna be like in 50 years from now yeah
and if it becomes mainstream right like
sure now it seems oh it's almost
impossible you need so much power but
back then we look when servers took up
Lego an entire level of a building even
think of the 1980s yes I was not alive
think of it though for those of us who
were and think about like this okay and
think about the computers that we had
and and now think about the the fastest
computer in the world at that time and
it's not as fast as what you have in
front of you right there
the computer for more games that was
gonna move it we keep O'Shay we keep
pushing the battery we I mean this isn't
the only story with it we had the
Bloodhound card now we have these you
know it's it's human nature we are
always gonna try and just grasp it the
next thing we have to any worse yeah and
we'll get there I love it yeah
mind-blowing hey what can it be used for
let us know down below big thanks to Roy
W Nash in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and if you appreciate
what we do become a patron at
patreon.com slash newsroom from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman you know I'm Ravi Ferguson and
I'm Henry Bailey Broome thanks for being
here with us everybody we've got to take
a really quick break stick around
welcome back this is category five
technology TV hey I appreciate everybody
being here with us this week it's been a
lot of fun and I hope that you have a
happy and safe Halloween listen next
week we've got a great show planned
we've looked at a handful of Bluetooth
headphones in the past yes but we've
never really had the opportunity to say
which headphones sound best of all the
ones that we've looked at and so not
only are we going to do that but we've
added a couple more to the mix so we've
got a fantastic assortment of Bluetooth
headphones that are available right now
and we're gonna be comparing them it's a
tough thing to review but it's a good
opportunity for us to share with you
what we think so our opinion as to which
ones are the most comfortable which ones
sound the best which ones give the most
awesome bass and and all of those kinds
of opinion pieces about bluetooth
headphones so if you're in the market
for them or if you've got any one on
your on your Christmas shopping list
that is looking for headphones we're
going to be checking out a good
assortment of bluetooth headphones next
week to those of you who are affected by
the California fires just want to say we
really do hope that you are safe and and
that you're you and your families are
well we did miss some of our California
viewers this week and it does
go unnoticed and we do appreciate you
and hope that you are well for the rest
of you hate been great having you here
and hope everybody has a fantastic week
thanks to these two as well see you next
week
