[Music]
hello everybody happy coffee break what
is today today is March the 23rd and
this is our daily coffee break I was
just given a bill that came in the mail
you just got to remember what you shred
it exactly they'll send another nice to
see you run good to see you hey this is
your first time joining us for a coffee
break I believe it is it is it's mine
too guys our world demands that we just
take a break once a day that's a right
good cup of joe about one I don't know
what you're talking about or bottle of
water adventurous I of course I'm
sitting at my office so no Scotch
Bharati yeah I have the day off today
which is lovely really nice yeah I mean
you're a personal support worker so you
care for for elderly people who can't
leave their homes normally let alone at
this time
exactly so pretty much the biggest
change to my day is that now when I
arrived at
house I call them from my car to do a
screener and make sure that they're
doing okay and that they don't have any
signs or symptoms so that I know I'm
safe to enter and then once I'm in their
home and I'm actually doing my duties
social distancing is kind of out the
window but then I resume social
distancing as soon as I leave the house
they don't leave the house in general
right no they don't leave their house so
their risk points is actually us
so as PSWs we have to be sure that we
are following all the rules so that we
are not you know acquiring anything that
we could be bringing to them because
they are the vulnerable sector I have
like CTV playing downstairs in the back
I on my days off I think glued so no I
just listen to Justin Trudeau is like
Mozart piano music it's it's beautiful I
get to look out the window I sold my dog
nice to see you James really nice oh
yeah super super classy environment
right here
this I'll tell you is the least chaotic
that I could give you I should probably
do a tour of how crazy the house is
right now but I'm not going to that's
was crib crib Tula yeah maybe next time
maybe next coffee
I wish the camera down but I actually
mopped all of our mats Sascha so you
know the nice cushy mats that we stand
on that I stand on the edges right
mine's probably crystal clear and
already clean because I only I literally
perch on the very edge of my mat yes my
comfy endorse slippers which I've
recently washed they're comfortable and
clean another shelf loaded up with boxes
and I think we're close to done I'm sore
today though I'm a truck yeah the truck
is booked for the move and I logged in
last well I call them on Friday just to
make sure that everything was still ago
and they said that they're like a
critical service so they they will be
great
oh nice okay good
it's interesting the things that are
critical services and what aren't
grumbling because the garbage collection
is we are now discovering that garbage
collection is not they are like in the
garbage but they are not considered an
essential service they cut that off in
Toronto
really nice yeah one of the first things
I heard was the Toronto waste collection
stop oh my gosh yeah no garbage
collected Wow they had a big literally
yeah yeah that a big speech on the radio
like a guy high up in the government or
whatever tell them what we're gonna
change collection here yeah where are
you done New York Rochester New York New
York that's 300 miles from me yeah yeah
faults I'm in New Paltz ok ok I know
it's 300 miles because when I've done
training for my job I go to Rochester so
we'll store that door 300 miles to the
training center yeah I work at Walmart
we're considered essential service oh no
yeah it's any store I've I've seen you
know any grocery store Walmart Costco
yeah they're making some money that's
what I'm thinking everybody's gonna have
toilet paper for the next year yeah yep
yeah but all the food they bought is
gonna go spoiled so they're gonna have
to go out yes you say that but I know
because my wife is plant-based and
doesn't need any meat or anything so I
haven't been able to buy her canned
beans like all of that stuff is gone
it's yeah yeah right off the shelves oh
it's not the case then we're just gonna
have hoarding of canned goods and then a
by the food bank may be good actually
yes Robbie it took me over a week to get
chicken yeah Wow what bill so after you
set that I went to the grocery store
that day and they had very very few old
chickens and in a sign up that said that
there's a shortage here limited to one
so I did buy one full chicken and I cut
it up myself in quarters and so that's
in my freezer now so I've got a good
couple weeks where the chicken from that
okay my wife cooked the turkey last
night oh nice so we have like okay I
think we're gonna be in Turkey for the
next week for lunch and dinner
nice yeah I got a turkey too that's
probably gonna be ready tomorrow it's
like 99 cents a pound she said so well
it's a good size turkey I looked in my
pantry today and I was like I have like
a 10 pound bag of dried chickpeas and
I'm like well we won't starve eating
sandwiches at some point there's no even
dress I have a ton I have a ton of dried
chickpeas so if you do run a store and
they started to show prices in toilet
paper rolls paper I heard that there's a
restaurant somewhere in Ontario that
they had to close down except for
delivery and now with every delivery
they're giving you a free roll of toilet
paper cool maybe I should make one of
the Kickstarter perks like a napkin
toilet paper first we'll make sure to
deliver it before September right the
problem
Prime Minister almost shut down all of
Norway I knew that something was I went
to the city and I bought a pack of 18
rolls and based on my on my country on
how much I use have these packs have one
died and I just opened
I have toilet paper for the next year
because I'm alone so he's got no food so
he's gonna have no quickly amazing how
we resort to our primitive cells I will
say that I heard on the news that the
environmental impact of this like the
actual pollution over it like China and
Italy has dropped so incredibly that
that people's asthma is gonna help clear
up which is actually going to keep them
from getting sick a week they can't
remember the last time they have to oh
my gosh
yeah so maybe there'll be a takeaway
from this later when everything heals up
and clears up that we don't actually
need to be doing as much travel we could
do a lot more zoom a lot more zoom for
sure yeah I think that when this thing
is this pollution in Beijing another big
is it is
come back to normal because the
pollution in China is coal power plants
and dirty factories and as soon as they
start up again it deposition is going to
come back right it's gonna be even worse
though because like everyone's gonna try
to be catching up with their workload so
now everyone's gonna be working overtime
just like interesting a theory is that
this I saw a speech preacher and he is
he is thinking that this is he if he
thinks that this is most likely a trial
run of when the seven-year tribulation
is starting to see how things are going
and parallel to this I just read an
article there is an organization within
the UN and that is planning to announce
sometime this year that they are going
to have a microchip that is going to
have to be either in their right hand or
you know forehead to indicate whether or
not you have been vaccinated against
these riders yeah what's that
the move is going to take place that is
good how many hands do I have
are physically going to be there I know
I'll be there Sasha how are you guys
doing you guys are are you yes unless I
find out from work that I'm not allowed
because so far at work I have to sign at
the beginning of my shift that I've
limited my contact and right now it's
been limited to 20 people or less but
I've heard tell that it's going to drop
down so that I can't be in gatherings of
five people or less oh wow
if that's the case that Inlet and I
wouldn't wish upon you less than five
people but if there were more than five
people then I couldn't be one of them in
Germany yesterday they bound a gathering
of more than two people that's right say
many oh wow the only exception is your
immediate family and yeah I was
wondering which one of the my my family
was going to kick out draw straws there
you go well there is already there is
already isolated so yes are you still
moving to Nova Scotia I'm moving to
Newfoundland as soon as possible
however we were just we were just
talking about it and hopefully because
you're talking about closing the
provincial borders so hopefully we can
get there before that happens everything
changes daily and if they are doing a
mandatory self-isolation in entry of
every province then can we drive through
them and get gas and or use the washroom
I mean we could pack food enough to last
the drive but we won't flu would have to
stop for gas and the loo and we could
sleep in the cars but I don't know I
don't know the answer that any
say yeah so I tried calling you all
they're closed yeah so I don't know I
might be here forever it won't be but
it's likely to be here for the next 14
days yeah so in that note Robby I'll
probably be there for the move oh yeah
that was the question great
yeah just my two hands I think this
point okay well that's less than five
that's good there you go
so when you figure out what you're doing
Sasha whenever you figure out what
you're doing single things have been up
in the air for you I'll lend a hand
I can use your dollies that we said yeah
[Laughter]
yeah I don't know when our date will be
but we'll be available to help you with
yours
both Dave and I as long as we don't bump
you over five at this point I'm thinking
that just brings us to three I'm off
work for the rest of the week now so
technically I could help out yeah
technically moral support
yeah good job guys keep it up he began
in different characters big-big
interviewed different people person each
time and only in the one instance he I I
tried to order a tripod Robby I can tell
it didn't arrive yet
have you tried ordering anything from
Amazon recently a lot of stuff actually
yeah yeah my my date is my if I order it
so I didn't order it because I
everything so up in the air about what's
going on but it said it the arrival date
would be April that's 20 yes I've
ordered a lot of foodstuffs off of
Amazon and it arrives in two days yes
there there triaging so something going
on that there's everyone's order is
saying something like April 21st
but still they got it like in three
years I'd know April 21st is my birthday
just a fun side note it's a big party
this year no maybe a zoom that's right
well what can you do amazing how quickly
things change we have seven days from
today left to our Kickstarter guys so
you know let people know maybe challenge
the community to match your own
contributions and let's see how far we
can go there's couple extra perks there
too but I threw in for good measure
did you throw in toilet paper
yeah yeah you can have a new one six
thousand and two packs of toilet paper
set aside one roll yeah when we got
married we got one roll of toilet paper
as a wedding gift from one of our guests
we realized that they had written
actually messages on the toilet paper we
enrolled all the all these funny things
because they expected us to use it we
had to put it on a shelf a lot of work
yeah it's like for emergency imagine
that's funny
anybody I have on you
I am the obscene maintainer of Idul
terminal gal gal generator you have a
folder features and it generates HTML
features it's an old project that I
started in maintaining I'm going to try
when you start a similar thing for video
files to generate html5 where the files
to host local streaming something using
the time to get some projects done
that's good I still have to work my
normal shift but also getting ready for
the move at the same time so my life is
pretty much between those two things and
trying to spend time with my wife and
kids - yeah
Oh mostly I've just been working my day
off today I'm pretty much this is my
plan cooking food and doing this this
coffee break that's my highlight there
you go I got my dishwasher working again
today let's go run those my projects for
the morning yeah I don't know what I'm
doing at this afternoon probably we only
have to accomplish one thing per day oh
that's good yeah we're down sighs
there's a shower counts as one thing get
up and take a shower and you're done a
joke I read two years ago there was this
guy he was praying telling all day God I
haven't done anything of course not I
think a lot of our customers have closed
down I'm doing a remote installation
today because I'm not doing
site visits so I'm gonna be said right
excess for a customer in a meeting this
afternoon again over the phone yeah I'm
always shocked if I like I've been
trying to call people and I'm shocked
when they're actually open I said you
know like that's yeah I'm like a
skeleton staff scenario yeah that was
that was the last day I went into New
York City I I called one customer on the
off chance that she would be there and
turns out she was there and the
receptionist was there and no one else
Wow
I did some work I was that was Friday
before last was in the city yeah here
I've only got three people in one of
them is on on a call right now at a
place where there's only one other
person and then just do about sit in the
office today do you guys do
I might time I mentioned this before but
I saw a video that this Rossmann did a
few days ago on his bike I don't
remember if it was going to go in from
his work that he was doing on this bike
and riding through the city yeah I saw
that
he was passionately walks my office get
away from work do you guys want to see
how much packing I've done at my place
yes or whether or not my phone okay hold
on I'll take you for a walk
hold on go downstairs please hold
I don't know how to switch this camera
view around so let's see if I can do it
like this this is the this is the main
so many boxes she's got you beat Robbie
yeah 2005
fifteen pounds in in boxes looks like
because most of the people that are
watching don't really know what's going
on in your world should we talk a little
bit briefly about that sure yeah we can
I'm moving to Newfoundland and that is
to be close to Dave's dad Keith so we're
gonna live there
I wish we were already there and light
effects going on so originally the plan
was to move you know summer or fall but
we're amping it up and kind of leaving
as soon as possible which looked like
maybe originally July and then it got
moved to April and now it's like
tomorrow if we can but tomorrow's not
really like a culmination of of many
things yeah so I because I have worked
there and because of the way things have
been going economy wise here in Ontario
they've got laid off here so if we're
gonna be self isolated we might as well
be selling ice elated instead of in an
apartment we're paying for in a house
that we could actually be doing some
repairs on and you know in a in a
community in an area we down you're
moving I saw the town you're moving to
yourself isolated just by being there
exactly very true but I was I mean I was
reading some very sobering statistics
because in Newfoundland the population
is aging
if Kovac gets there they risk losing the
majority of their population so that's
why they're being very stringent on
who's allowed past the borders at this
point so we don't know at what point
we'll be able to go we are we're clear
and they'll check our temperature and
will self isolate and we'll do all of
the things we need to do but I respect
their their strong rules
right now although they're not really
working to make my move any easier I
should just let folks know that they're
wondering so Ashley you've got a headset
on now yes we talked you talked about
ordering a tripod for your phone yes
which is kind of like what I have here
and I'll make sure that you have one
regardless so if it comes down to it
just take the one I'm using right now
and then I'll order the other one for
you it'll be very I will certainly be
making every effort to be able to
include fashion show even though this
has kind of moved it's forcing her to go
and care for her so you're gonna have
the technology that you need I think to
be able to and we're gonna make the most
exactly I will still be a part of the
crew I'll just be a far far away part
exactly we'll make it work yeah I know
we will it's a different time zone so
wait until I do those calculations well
luckily I think I'll be a half-hour
early because it's true so I'll never be
late questions comments thoughts
concerns away five minutes warning yeah
what that's just about the time for
today's coffee break we're gonna do this
every day so be here if you can yeah I
hope it's a bit of a respite from kind
of the world media right now
you know something that we can do I will
see you again Sunday I gotta work the
rest of the week okay
yeah me too I'll be around Saturday for
the move was that we're done that's good
that done okay done yeah well I'm glad
you could be here hey I enjoyed it then
maybe we shouldn't spend it talking
about the Kovac for half an hour and now
we're great from the news let's talk
about Kofi ourselves I was doing online
training so this woke me up it's been
great having you all here for a coffee
break today
don't forget our Kickstarter is going on
for another week and it's at fun I've
dot TV slash kit to participate in that
there's some great perks and it's a
great way to support the show and of
course this our coffee break will happen
at noon Toronto time every day for the
foreseeable future so I hope you can
join us take care everybody take care
see ya
bye bye bye everybody hi
