welcome to category five technology TV
episode 633 tonight is a very special
episode do you know why why because
tonight we are going through the build
of our brand new broadcast rig this
thing's been coming for a long time the
viewers have helped out all you patrons
have helped out this has been a
community project that's been
culminating to tonight to the big
epicenter of Awesomeness as Robbie who's
gonna walk us through a couple of clips
from the past and I'm blocking unboxings
and putting together the broadcast
server for tonight's show
it's gonna be a good one stick around my
live recordings are trusted only two
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 TV welcome
to the show everybody well our broadcast
server is ready to go we're gonna be
jumping into that in just a couple of
moments time but before we do I want to
remind you please subscribe to us on
YouTube and click that little bell in
order to get the notifications and I
think we've got it licked we've been
having all kinds of trouble now we know
that there have been some problems with
YouTube over the past couple of weeks
and we appreciate the viewers who have
let us know about that now we're working
with YouTube in order to get that
working for you this week for episode
number 633 I believe it is working we're
having all kinds of little issues and
that stems a lot from various US
sanctions and you may notice if you are
a part you know if you subscribe to
services online you're getting a lot of
emails these days saying our Terms of
services have changed click here to
approve that and we're seeing that a lot
with things like YouTube and various
other services online and that is
affecting category 5 TV unfortunately so
we're working through that and we hope
that you're able to tune in this week
with us so click that Bell and that will
allow you to get the notifications as
they arrive now as I mentioned our
server build is complete I filmed the
entire process quick mention before we
get into it though I want to show you
we've repurposed the the case that
thermal takes sent us for the previous
server Jeff sasha is here with me you
remember the the old server case that we
had the thermal take level 10 GT and it
turns out it's deep enough for an I
$9.99 hundred Kay it's a beautiful
chassis and so we've repurposed that
you're gonna see that this evening
so just a little heads up for you that's
the one thing that we've kind of
recycled reused with our server build
and that saves us a couple hundred bucks
as far as the build goes and it allows
us truthfully as Jeff mentioned they're
a beautiful case it allows us to reuse a
case that is no longer available on the
market and looks really really sleek
draws the attention anytime anyone comes
into the studio now what I've done this
week is I've taken many hours of work as
I built the new broadcast system and I
condensed it down and we're gonna try to
do this within a 45-minute window this
evening I mean this is a one hour
approximately one hour show and so we
want to be able to condense it for you
so I'm going to do some some magic with
TV and speed things up and make it
happen for you essentially what you need
to know is that we've built a brand new
broadcast server I don't need to say
much because I'm gonna show you in just
a couple of moments time but with that
server it allows us to do some new
things for k2k broadcasting we're now
eighteen over nine or two over one
aspect ratio for example there's a lot
of new modern techniques that we're able
to use in our broadcast but we weren't
able to do before and those are side
effects of just simply replacing an old
decrepit server that was having some
trouble that was on its way out because
it had been in use for many many years
and it treated us well you're gonna hear
about that as well so without further
ado I'm gonna jump right into it
we're gonna start things off with a
condensed version of what our patrons
saw so as a patron you're able to see
behind the scenes and things that happen
here at category five TV that are not on
the regular broadcast and so what I've
done is I've taken several hours of
creating this server and condensed it
down to fit the format of the live
broadcast of category five technology TV
so I hope you enjoy we're gonna start
things off with with the unboxing video
blogs
that happened on our patreon channel and
then we're gonna kick we're gonna kick
into the actual server build so I hope
you enjoy and we'll see you on the flip
side here we go I built our broadcast
server we'll call it our broadcast
system which at the time was a pretty
high-end i7 I built that back at the
beginning of season five so here we are
we're in the middle of season 12 fast
approaching the end of season 12 and
it's time to replace that so why do we
have to replace that well obviously
we've gotten our time out of it it
doesn't tell us anything it's done very
very well
but in the course of the past year we've
had some problems with that system so
namely one of the PCI Express Lanes
went out of the board now this is a
board when we purchased it back then I
made sure that it had multiple PCI
Express lanes because pulling in HD
video via PCI Express I wanted to
separate them out so that each video
capture device could have its own PCIe
Lane seemed like a good idea and
obviously has worked very very well for
us but then having one of those lanes
die on us meant having to pull some of
the cards and and well one of the cards
in particular we had to pull which
happened to be our hard drive so I had
to switch back from nvme to traditional
SATA SSD drives which has been working
well because we no longer have to record
to the internal disk of the server so
keeping in mind back when I built this
we were recording directly to the disk
so we had a raid 0 then we upgraded to
SSD followed by nvme because we really
needed a lot of write power to be able
to save real time HD video in RAW format
which is a massive amount of data like
we're talking one episode of category 5
is approximately 65 gigabytes of storage
I don't have to save that internally
anymore because you may remember an
anonymous contributor donated what's
called an anatomist ninja flame
and that is an external recorder unit so
we use HDMI output from that computer
now and record to a Kingston SSD that's
plugged into the Atomos ninja flame so
that brings with it a lot of great
things I mean that bought us a lot of
time because the old system was no
longer having to write to disk so the
failure of the PCI Express Lane didn't
affect us as much as it could have
because I no longer had to record to
nvme I could record externally to the
SSD so but what else that opens up to us
is it is a 4k capture device so our old
system was incapable of producing 4k
video just because of the sheer lack of
power there
4k didn't exist I don't think when when
I first built it so in particular you
see me sitting on a green screen one of
the things that the old server couldn't
do is chroma key once we switch the
cameras to 4k and that's because it has
to take 4k video and then do real-time
chroma keys so we had to stop using the
green screen so that's something we may
be able to do again but in particular
with the Atomos ninja flame because it
can support up to 4k we can presumably
if we upgrade the server be able to do
more in higher resolution so certainly
when we do game reviews or software
reviews we could do that in a higher
resolution which could be beneficial
especially when it comes to gameplay
videos and things like that but at this
time we haven't been able to utilize
that the other thing that went out on
that system which was pretty detrimental
to us is the USB 3 bus so the
motherboard had built-in USB 3 and we
now had we're down one PCI Express Lanes
so I also cannot use a PCI Express USB 3
card so catch-22 or just you know no all
right it's AOL I can tell you that so
without peace without USB 3 that of
course would mean that we couldn't use
HD webcams which we don't tend to use
anymore anyway so that's not a problem
but where it does affect the studio is
that after every Wednesday show I have
to import the video from the Atomos
ninja flame and that is done over you
guessed it USB
and I've been doing that over usb2 for
the past several months and on a
Wednesday night when I haven't had
dinner yet and I just finished a long
day at work and then a long show and
then all the you know preparations to
post produce the show after that it can
be pretty tough importing 65 gigs of
video over USB - so that's another
reason that we need to upgrade so so
let's look at what the plan was and
let's see where we're at so this is a
spreadsheet that I've simply printed to
give me easy access right now so we know
that we want to build something that is
reasonably high-end for the current day
because here we are in 2019 it's it's
July first as I record this we want to
be fairly high-end because not because
we want to have a screaming gaming
system but because as we did with the
last one we want to get a lot of years
out of it and if you start with cheap
components and maybe it gets you by for
three years but then you're back in the
crippled position again three years
later and we I really prefer to avoid
that especially with category 5 quite
often operating on a bit of a shoestring
budget and you know we make our bills
and everything else but there's not a
lot left over to be buying extra stuff
so that's where your contributions has
really really helped with this at the
beginning of this process I mentioned my
slight anxiety about this whole thing at
the beginning of the process I was
fairly discouraged myself we didn't have
a ton of contributions coming in and and
so that when when something as major as
having to replace our main computer
system that produces and broadcast the
entire show comes up it was like well
what do I do
how how can how can I possibly carry on
and and we've kind of we stumbled along
and we've made it happen and we haven't
missed a wednesday show and this is
fantastic
and that is also largely because of the
encouragement that I've received from
you through the contributions that
you've sent
and I've been sure to put all of the
contributions that were donated for the
server into this particular build and I
just want to like I want you to know
that on a production level your
contributions have made it so that we
can keep going on a personal level it's
encouraged me and and helped me just
personally to feel like I'm not alone in
category five and I know I'm not but I'm
a human too right and we we all get
discouraged and what I have around me
right now and what we're about to do is
a major major encouragement to me and
just shows that there's power in numbers
and power with our viewers and and when
everybody comes together and now I'm
surrounded by what I believe is all the
hardware that we're gonna need in order
to make this happen so let's look at my
spreadsheet so first of all the
processor that I opted for and remember
that I've consulted a handful of viewers
on our discord so I set up a private
discord server and we've been discussing
this especially out the gate when we
were first starting to put this together
we discussed the the pros and cons of
going with like a threat Ripper versus
an i9 what what we should be leaning
toward how we should probably do this so
it hasn't been willy-nilly and it hasn't
been my own decisions entirely it's been
a lot of consultation with the community
and even within my profession consulting
with people that I know and trust who do
these kinds of builds a lot and and so
I've consulted them as well so we opted
for an i 999 hundred k cost here in
Canada was seven hundred forty five
dollars
I understand these are going down in
price and that's a bit of a burn but it
is what it is
there it is core I nine it comes with a
really nice case which I'm incidentally
hoping to turn into a single board
computer case when it's all said and
done I think it would look really nice
with a couple of LEDs in it so there's
the I 999 hundred K CPU
so this is the old server case and let's
see what we got here oh we got a bunch
of junk and dust bunnies
there's the filter for the bottom just
gonna set that aside
we've got Drive trays these bad boys go
in here again I'm gonna set those aside
because we got to get this thing ready
for our build
she's noisy pretty noisy up in here
all right
so I'm just going to take this outside
get away from all this noise whoa
okay made it out
there we are alright let's get to it a
real good hose-down
great she's ready there we are folks
let's get into the motherboard I think
this is you know this is ground zero
step one of our build is to actually get
the motherboard out of the box this
thing is impressive folks there it is
the gigabyte whoo a RS master with the
zed 390 this is just stunning ok I'm
being very careful with this I want to
just get it out of the box so that we
can get a good luck what else have we
got in the box looks like a or stickers
galore that's kind of nice
I'll look at the I will look at the
manual and see if there's anywhere that
these are meant to go it doesn't look
like they go on the board
these look like stuff that you'd put on
your case and really show off that
you've got a beautiful gigabyte
motherboard we've also got an
instruction guide and the actual there's
stuff falling out of the manual the
actual well speaking of optical drive
good thing I have that the actual manual
itself ok so optical disc drivers and so
on and we've got what looks like a
Ferrari sticker but is actually a Oris
beautiful okay so we're gonna be able to
deckle out our server or my laptop so
let's get a look at what we have here
Wow okay so there's our CPU it's gonna
go there well you guys got to see the
back of this that's the Z 390 a RS
master from gigabyte look at all the
connectivity so what do I see here USB
3.1 there's three of them we've got
Gigabit Ethernet USB 3.0 two of those
we've got power on the back that's kind
of sweet we've got a CMOS clear button
here as well be careful with that one
I've got four USB to ports we've got
s/pdif out
nice-looking gold-plated sound card 7.1
looks like and we've got a USB type-c
aswell 3.1 and Wi-Fi antennas so this
actually has the Wi-Fi built in I
imagine that's unexpected and awesome is
there will come a time when you want to
have Wi-Fi for sure
okay we've got ports here for our m2 s
so these are for the storage so imagine
the days when we used to have to have
great big hard drives well those days
are gone
now they're just these little chips and
they look like a memory module of sorts
you just slide them in and these have a
heatsink this motherboard has a heatsink
for each of the MDOT two modules so
those are going to be nvme and I'm not
quite sure how I'm going to connect
those as far as like the raid goes just
yet but I'm gonna get into that this
here looks like a big honkin heatsink
and it is kind of attached there we've
got some oh I don't even want to remove
the there's some protective film on
everything just kind of want to leave
that until the build is complete and
then pull everything off I've got four
ddr4 sockets here there socket 1150 one
looks like eight gen oh the this is an
1151 obviously these are ddr4 and it
supports the 8th gen Intel Core
processors I've got a 9999 hundred K to
put on there what else have we got ok
PCI Express x16 x one two three and then
we've got a couple of x1 they call those
X 2's x1 X I never can keep track of all
these things but the little guys X ones
we've got three of those so presumably
I'm gonna have a lot of room for our big
old graphics card plus we've got a
couple of extra PCI Express slots in
order to the capture devices are usually
the X ones so those will be perfect just
glorious
what do you think of that Wow you see me
holding the underside I'm gonna show you
this because it might make you nervous
but it's actually plated see that just
beautiful so much precision and detail
has gone into this board and you can see
everything is solid-state look at all
those caps just beautiful I love it
all right so let's get her in there
[Music]
so this will be the last thing that we
need and just a reminder now Marsh man
had suggested why don't we use the old
video card to get up and running and the
problem with doing that is that it's a
very old card so we'd still have the
limits of the GPU and the GPU is what
does all the real-time video processing
so even with a super fast computer with
all the fixin's that you see here we'd
still be limited by the GPU because
that's where everything happens as far
as real-time video encoding and
everything else happens so the GPU is
probably one of the most important parts
of a broadcast system
and I use Telestream Wirecast which is
able to utilize the CUDA cores on an
nvidia card alright so there's a lot of
advantage there so alright let's get
into it now let's see what we have here
bubble wrap and a plain Jane box okay so
this gives me no hints all right well
she's big and heavy
where some things have gotten smaller
video cards have indeed gotten bigger
holy cow did you see me start shaking
there no way
are you serious
for one thing it looks brand-new I mean
it has to be because this is the newest
card on the market
I can't even tell you
sorry guys I really had hoped to be able
to do a really good build and you know
we set our goals and I thought I set my
goal is high because we want to get good
life out of this thing and and have it
work really well this is this is above
and beyond so oh my gosh I'm gonna have
to even google the specifications this
is this is a okay so I'd hope for 1280
TI in my you know again and I say my a
1280 no and I can't even think straight
right now a 2880 what am I talking about
a 20 80 TI I'm sorry would have been a
pretty awesome card 20 80 TI is what you
would call a consumer card it's a great
gaming card
it's a powerful card and it has ray
tracing ray tracing is real-time
lighting capabilities which improves the
quality exponentially when you're doing
demos of like high-end gaming and things
like that the other thing about the
consumer line is that it is able to do
real-time chroma key and everything else
without even thinking about it
this is a Quadro RT x ray tracing 6000
which means so take the 2080 that we
hoped that we dreamed of and throw more
ram in there throw more power in there
and that's what this is
holy cow
well folks so how do I even say thank
you sorry that caught me off guard guys
when we come back I'm gonna start
putting all this together stick around
alright here's the kit folks let's get a
look at what is on the table to start
things off I've got the Knox Wadi NHD 15
premium cooler it's gonna go on the Z
390 ARS master that was sent to us by
gigabyte and that's gonna be perfect for
our I nine ninety nine hundred K CPU to
marry the two I've got thermal Grizzly
cria not thermal paste and then I've got
this dreamy NVIDIA Quadro r-tx 6000 that
they sent us that we will look closer at
in just a couple of moments time then
I've got the power supplies in our m8 50
X I got a great deal on that because
it's yesterday's model and then from
there I've got the intensity Pro 4k from
black magic we're gonna use that as
video output to our recorder Kingston
sent us 2 terabyte nvme drives and the
RAM this is gorgeous stuff predator RGB
ddr4 3.2 gigahertz
and then I've got a couple other things
like fans and other things to help us
with our reuse of the server case and
that of course is the thermaltake level
10 GT case that we're repurposing from
our old server I've already installed
the motherboard as you see but now I'm
gonna start with the storage so we've
got these Kingston KC 2000 2 terabyte
nvme drives that the Kingston has has
been good enough to send us and through
the magic of television of course I can
speed up this 3
our process and make things a lot faster
for you as you can see the gigabyte a
horas master is it has the nvme ports
directly on the board so I don't have to
supplement the the motherboard with like
PCI Express cards for the storage these
go directly on the board and all you
have to do is pop them in like a like a
module screw them down and then we're
gonna add the heatsink the heat sinks as
you can see are included with the
motherboard and they have like a thermal
tape on the back which is just a little
bit of a stickiness to it make sure you
peel off the protective layer okay you
don't want to accidentally put that on
your nvme because envy amis do get
pretty hot this is going to absorb a
fair bit of that heat to give you better
performance because nvme also will
throttle if if it gets too hot so don't
forget that tape all right and then I'm
just gonna screw that in and that's as
simple as it is to get the drives in now
I've got three of those we're gonna skip
over for the sake of good TV we'll call
it and jump right to our I nine
processor that of course is the
wonderful I $9.99 hundred K how do we
get into the dodecahedron that is the
question and that is a fantastic
processor I'm going to tell you a little
bit about that but let's let's first
open it up so I've got my box cutter I
want to do this in such a way that I can
reuse the case because I'm thinking
either a single board computer case will
start with maybe LEDs in it to to turn
it into like an on-set lamp I think it
just looks too cool to just discard or
recycle this case it's just pretty
awesome so this CPU is the I $9.99
hundred K the K means it's an unlocked
processor it'll run up to five gigahertz
these are fantastic
for video editing and production
purposes this particular processor has
eight cores and of course
multi-threading we'll take that up to
sixteen as well
I'm almost in there and there it is the
heavenly semaphores need to play alright
so we've got our case we've got our I
nine ninety nine hundred K and there you
have it so let's pop it on the
motherboard that's our next step and if
you've never built a computer before
well this is a good opportunity for you
to see how this particular build is done
I'm gonna remove this protective cover
on the motherboard that is just there to
ensure during shipping and storage that
that the pins don't get dust or dirt on
them that are gonna affect the
conductivity that's really important so
remove that first and then open this up
and we're just gonna simply put that
processor in there but there's a
particular way that it needs to go in
I'm going to show you how how we can
determine that what else is in the box
we've got a what looks like a manual
alright throw that aside Jeff just
cringed okay so if you look at the the
port the LGA 1155 port that's going to
show you it's got a little a little
triangular a little thing it's a little
hard to see through the through the
plastic but that matches up with the
motherboards so there's a little
triangle printer printed on the
motherboard and if I get in here I'm
gonna show you this you see that little
guy that triangle is gonna match up so
you want to make sure that you put this
in the right way make sure you match
that up with the with the pro with the
motherboard and I said 1155 I meant LGA
1151 pardon me my mistake
and we just latched that down and we're
good to go so next up I want to install
this Kingston Predator RGB Ram they've
sent us 416 gig modules at 3.2 gigahertz
each and those those modules I mean
that's gonna give us 64 gigs of ram dual
channel on this motherboard and I must
say I mean we love Kingston technology
here and and we greatly appreciate their
support of this build as well there they
are there they're quite large look at
that and they've got the built-in heat
sinks which again the heat sink is gonna
improve performance because you're not
gonna have any trouble with throttling
or anything like that so open up your
your your RAM slots here just pull those
pins and it's pretty easy to install
these you just want to be gentle careful
don't touch the pins of the the modules
themselves as well
and that's just gonna go right onto the
motherboard it's only gonna go one way
you can observe the pin lineup and and
see where that little divot is and that
will help you to know which way it goes
in and then you just kind of rock it
back and forth don't do it side to side
because you don't want to break it and
it will just snap in and those those
connectors on the end will actually snap
into the the card look at that heatsink
isn't that lovely beautiful we've got
the RGB strip at the top so presumably
that's gonna light up as soon as we fire
up the motherboard and the heatsink is
gonna absorb a lot of the the heat
that's generated by the mass amounts of
ddr4 Ram there we go
so we've got four of those and the
gigabyte motherboard is gonna take all
four and we'll just kind of speed things
up for you and get through that
installation process pretty simple stuff
it's pretty quick and easy to install
the RAM modules but we want to put that
in make sure you do that before the
heatsink because as soon as we put in
the cooling system it's gonna be really
hard to access the the RAM and with our
cooling system let's get into the box of
the Nok schewe NHD 15 and I joke that
nobody buys these for the style of them
are the look we buy them for the cooling
capacity that box there is the the one
that I opened first is the the mounting
apparatus but this is the the extra fan
that it comes with so we do have two
fans and you can see it's got that kind
of retro look to it and that's the
heatsink itself which also has a fan
attached to it so we'll get into the box
here and see how that looks okay just be
very very careful and you don't want to
get any dust on the the contact there it
is protected by plastic at this time and
it's brand new so its pristine and clean
we'll just pull out this extra cardboard
here see that just do everything I mean
anytime I do a build you just got to be
patient and and take your time don't do
anything forcibly look at that that
heatsink is just massive and beautiful
in its own way just awesome so that's
the next thing to put on to our
motherboard and I just need to know what
what mounting hardware to use because
this box of mounting hardware is it's
got AMD and everything else but we're
installing the LGA 1151 as you can see
there and so when we come back we're
gonna be putting that on the motherboard
stick around
all right welcome back everybody we're
looking at building our new i9 server
case this is for our Telestream Wirecast
broadcast rig and I'm about to install
the backplate on the CPU cooling system
from nock schewe so we know that it's an
1151 I know I mistakenly called it 1155
but we know what what I was talking
about I'm just gonna place that on the
back now one of the observations here
and mentions is that my case has this
grand opening on the back to allow me to
do this without having to take the
motherboard out but do observe yours
before you place the motherboard on the
in the actual case I'm lucky that mine
was able to do that but yours you may
have to mount that ahead of time so keep
that in mind one thing I noticed as I
set this up is that this back plate is
going to fall out so it's helpful to
have some masking tape around just to
temporarily hold it into place so that
we can mount that correctly on the other
side so that it'll hold it in place so
just keep in mind I have the ability to
do this on the back of the case you may
have had to mount this particular piece
before putting the motherboard in ok
want to be clear about that
let's get right to it so now I need to
put the mounting screws to hold that
plate into place so these little guys
are gonna actually hold that from this
side be very careful you don't touch
that CPU ok and plan out how you're
gonna line up these mounting plates so
I'm gonna place these this way it will
go any which way so keep that in mind
because you want to make sure that your
air flow is in the direction that you
want it to be so that's why I'm placing
it like that
all right so a couple of screws and
we're in and we're good to go it's in
there solid so next up I need to pull
this fan off of the the heatsink system
so that's just a couple of clips get
that out of the way and we're gonna put
that back in a little bit and clip those
on but first I need some thermal paste
and this thermal grizzly paste I opted
out of using the conductive paste
because I just didn't want to take the
risk and this stuff the cria knot is
very very good for the i-9 so I'm gonna
go with a bead which is a pea-sized bead
in the middle of the processor and I'm
gonna allow the heatsink to spread that
for me I'm not gonna do the spreading
I'm not not going to do the X pattern
it's a debate which one you want to go
with tonight we're gonna go with the
bead there we have it
alright so now I'm ready to mount this
heatsink this is the knock schwa NH D 15
and all we need to do is pull off the
plastic protective coating and be very
careful that we don't touch any surfaces
that are gonna come in contact with our
processor or of course the processor
surface itself and we're just gonna
mount that right on top there and give
that a couple of screws now it was nice
that it came with so the the knock schwa
cooling system came with this giant long
screwdriver to allow me to do this much
more easily I don't have to really get
all finicky with it and find the right
tools it came with it and I'll be able
to reuse that so now I can put that fan
back in place make sure that it's
aligned to the direction that you want
the airflow to go I'm gonna show you
that in just a second how you can
determine that and make sure that you
can plug that into the motherboard these
are speed control fans so you need a
three pin header in order to use those
to their full capacity now you see that
little arrow there on the fan it's a
little hard to see but that shows the
direction of the airflow so plan that
out and mount your fans in such a way
that it's blowing the air out the back
of your your
your computer chassis so now just a
couple more wires to make sure that that
is in place that's on the pwm headers of
my motherboard and that goes on the
other side I'm having to levitate that a
little bit because of those large Ram
modules but it does it does the trick
and unfortunately covers the RGB I've
got the power supply that's our next
step we've got to power this thing so
this is of course the RM 850 x from
corsair it's a modular power supply
which means I get all these cables and
that means I can really well I only have
to use the cables that I need that means
I don't have to have a whole lot of
clutter or cables that are just there
for no reason these are I can just plug
in the ones that I actually need for my
build so it comes in this nice
protective bag I guess you could reuse
that it's a little purposeless but hey
it's a nice bag I guess so
there you go nice big honkin cooler on
there and I want to make sure that the
airflow is going to be blowing out the
bottom of my chassis so keep that in
mind again when you're mounting it plan
out the airflow that's crucial here
we're not doing liquid cooling system
we're doing entirely air-cooled as far
as our cooling system goes for the i9
and there we have it so I'm ready to
start doing the cabling for the power
first of all I can get all this tape off
of here we don't need that anymore
that's all mounted and solid so let's
get that off of there and look at that
just beautiful and I can start feeding
these cables through the cable
management and I will clean those up
don't you worry some of them are left
over from our previous build and just
make sure you feed those so that they're
out of the way and that they reach where
they need to go so a little hard to get
around that that cooling system might
need some little hands I had some
trouble getting a couple of the headers
on there but I was able to make do so I
got it on there we've got all the power
that's coming in there for
the motherboard and then we've got these
headers for the front panel which is
like your power button your audio and
all that it came with so the motherboard
came with this great little header that
just plugs right in and we're good to go
so just clean up our wiring there and
I'm using tie wraps just to kind of make
sure that those are tied up nicely at
the back you're not gonna see those but
I want to make absolutely certain that
there's great airflow within the chassis
itself and that's exactly what I've been
able to achieve here with this chassis
all right so next step is we're gonna
jump into the intensity Pro 4k this is
from black magic and we do not use this
for capture because we prefer mage well
capture cards however I do love this
card for video output from Telestream
Wirecast it gives me full frame 4k
output and DaVinci Resolve comes with it
and that's gonna be our new editing
software it looks like we got some kind
of driver software on sd card which is
interesting no optical and it's just a
little it looks like an X 2 card to pop
into the motherboard so can that go
above the video card or so I'm thinking
about where the video card is gonna go
but it up against the cooling system I
don't think it's gonna fit in there
because the cooling system kind of
overlaps so I'm actually losing one of
my exports PCI Express which is fine I
hope but that cooling system is blocking
one of my ports and this card being an
x2 it's not going to go into an x1 I'm
gonna have to use an X 16 so let's start
it off right next to the power supply
and we'll pop that in there and we'll
need to adjust things as we go I do need
to fit a couple of majorelle cards in
there as well in the box we've also got
component and we've got some RCA inputs
and things like that on a breakout cable
so we can use some retro stuff and now
let's get into the NVIDIA Quadro RT X
6000 card this thing is just outstanding
and as you saw earlier in the show I
mean when I open this when I unbox this
I'm just I'm flabbergasted
to be honest I'm I'm just like this is
well beyond what we had ever hoped for
we'll call this a professional card this
is of course
Nvidia's like current line we've got
lots of ports therefore DisplayPort I
bought some adapters off of Amazon for
just a cheap price to convert that to to
HDMI and look at that circuitry on the
back it's just an astonishing card but
ok looking at the specs of this I mean
first of all this is a pro card right so
this is not your average consumer card
like we were you know that would have
been our baseline this card goes for
about 4 grand
it has 4600 plus CUDA cores it's got 576
tensor cores and 72 our T cores as well
it's got 24 gigs of ram on that card
it's DDR 6 Ram at that we've got a
couple of screws to put in to mount that
into the mainboard into the chassis
itself this video card is like what's
going to take us to the next level
because we're able to do live chromakey
live production our encoders are going
to be a lot faster when we're encoding
HD and ultra HD video we're hoping to
get really into the ultra HD market as
far as category 5 goes we need 2 PCI
Express power cables into the gt-r TX
6000 this card performs imagine this at
sixteen point three teraflops
that's the GPU a little more cable
management for those power cords to get
that into the power power supplying unit
there make sure those are plugged into
the right spot if you fire up your
computer with the GPU and you have not
plugged in the PCI Express power to the
card you're not gonna have any video
coming out of the video card so keep
that in mind that's what it's gonna look
like folks that's what it's gonna look
like I'm gonna have to take that off
again
because I've got more stuff to mount but
that's it
beautiful look at the back of this folks
so I've got the the DisplayPort ports
coming out of the GPU we've got the
output from the card there Blackmagic
intensity Pro and then of course that
mainboard from Google
is just awesome all right next up I've
got one of these camera displays ready
to go and we're gonna use a camera
display in order to install the
operating system so I've got that
DisplayPort adapter which is going to
give me HDMI output from that video card
to a little seven-inch video display
that we use for our cameras but that's
gonna allow me to install Microsoft
Windows 10 and there we go so if all
works let's fire it up and yes no
problem folks straight into Windows 10
install install from from a DVD that is
our broadcast rig here at category 5 TV
for like the second half of season 13
and I just have to say huge thanks to
everybody who is a patron everybody who
contributed to the project who even if
you're not a patron but just decided to
pitch in I thank you and I want to thank
also Kingston Technology and gigabyte as
well as of course Nvidia for supporting
us through hardware contributions and
then we have that that thermaltake
chassis that goes back many many years
but yet even here in in 2019 is is able
to impact our build so that is going to
really improve things here at category 5
technology TV over the next little while
and I certainly think that that's gonna
last us for many many years to come
so thank you to everybody who has been a
part of that venture and I say that
thinking about the monetary end of
things but there are also those of you
who contributed by by being one of those
voices that I was able to bounce ideas
around with and and being able to
discuss the build with ahead of time and
make those purchasing decisions and
figure out what we wanted to do so I
thank you all we do have to head over to
the newsroom so Sasha Jeff if you're
ready you're rolling here's what's
coming
in the category 5 dot TV newsroom
thousands of Disney Plus accounts are
already up for sale on hacking forums
IOT doorbell ring had a bug in its
configuration app which sent Wi-Fi sets
information unencrypted to some doorbell
devices exposing customers home networks
github will preserve open source code in
an arctic vault stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week stop texting with a
slight linux bias
join this weave by Jeff Weston and also
Ravi Ferguson
he's just off set I am over here
somewhere this week a new AI is
combining machine learning and computer
vision to detect drowning people in
real-time using object recognition it's
able to tell if a person is swimming
normally or if they are at risk of
drowning what's best is that the
drowning detection is open-source and
can run on a single board computer such
as a Raspberry Pi a secretive clean
energy company backed by guilt Bill
Gates has created a way to use mirrors
and artificial intelligence to harness
the heat of the Sun replacing the need
to use fossil fuels heat applications
and cut back on co2 emissions this
invention creates concentrated solar
energy so hot that they can manufacture
steel glass and cement with a carbon
free source that has not been available
before let's get into the top stories
we're following this week thousands of
Disney Plus accounts are already up for
sale on hacking forums Disney's hotly
anticipated streaming service Disney
Plus finally launched this week despite
being open to the public for just a few
days hackers have already hijacked
thousands of accounts and put them up
for sale on the dark web the going rate
for a hacked account appears to be
somewhere between three and five dollars
that's three to four times more than the
asking price for a hack netflix account
logical enough given the excitement
around the Disney Plus launch so yeah
I'm not really all that surprised
it's be honest with you you know I
watched the big hype of Disney Plus and
the first thing I thought was I have no
desire to put any money into this into
Disney Plus into Disney Plus oh wow I
can see the draw like I actually want to
see all I want to see all of the things
on and I just don't want to pay for it I
mean you have all the classic Disney
stuff but you also have Star Wars and
Marvel and all that kind of stuff built
in which you know for somebody who's a
big movie
that's exactly what you're looking for
right and for somebody who has young
kids I could see the appeal to say hey
you know my kids can watch us and it's
great but at the same time I'm going
I already have Netflix yeah I already
have other streaming services I have no
desire to throw money at Disney for
something else that's really tough it is
like I'm that young kids Robby well I'm
the voice over here folks but the truth
is isn't it tough I think for content
creators and distributors these days
because like Disney needs their platform
and Netflix needs their platform
Amazon Prime needs their platform but
I'm not a like Jeff you say I'm not
about to subscribe to every platform
right I just want the Orval and like the
morning show like how do I get these on
one platform because right now that's
what that's the challenge for US
consumers and I think that the the
creators the content creators have to
come up with the solution we're like am
I gonna subscribe to Hulu and Amazon
Prime I'm in a great situation where
Amazon Prime also gives me free shipping
so I do want to ask a question about the
security of the situation yeah because
the real story is that hackers have
hijacked all of the accounts okay well
yeah how it goes yeah but that's not
them hacking Disney Plus that's people
who have really bad security on their
computers and their home networks and
are probably using the same password
from the same email and I mean let's be
clear chances are the majority of Disney
Plus users and subscribers are more than
likely families that often have tons of
accounts for their kids and everything
and you're gonna recycle passwords like
I think that's what the story's about is
people not being careful with their
passwords and the software on their
computers and and I think that's what I
couldn't Disney Plus not have one of
those passwords strength things that
other places have what good is that
Sasha if you already have the same
password on Twitter and Facebook and
your banking and your email account so
it doesn't come down to we have to have
a password manager so that we can
generate a fresh password for every
single subscription that we have online
what I'm saying yeah yeah so I mean it
doesn't surprise me that you're gonna
get those passwords out there what
probably people are doing is using their
same password for Disney Plus is there
for Netflix and like that's exactly
right so compromise one and you get
access to all of them right and on top
of that most people are going to be
playing this on their Smart TVs and
their other streaming devices and so the
likelihood of them logging in and
logging off and logging in and it's not
gonna happen they're gonna log in on
their device they're gonna recognize it
they're gonna approve it and they're not
gonna pay attention to the account for
however long and so if you've got you
know hundred other people who have
purchased their login information for
three dollars now they have no clue and
so oh dear you're paying the monthly
fees they're sitting there going I spent
three bucks I gave up my coffee at
Starbucks today and I'm watching Disney
Plus forever true that is and does that
really matter to me as a consumer who's
paying for that service it's like the
stolen cable exactly our childhood where
it's like do I really care I'm paying
for it but you know who has access to it
and and so we're talking about somebody
stealing our access they don't have
access to our personal confidential data
I hope but they have access to our
accounts yeah I I would just assume that
Disney Plus would do one of those
password strength things but but that is
useless if I know if you've got a really
strong password that you use for all
your sites I mean it used to be you can
put a password in and then it was oh
it's got to be six characters now it's
got a character by the way you need to
use capitals and small letters oh now
you need punctuation it's like
come on now you need a 32-bit signed
algorithmic yeah yeah like I'm surprised
though that for the fact that I mean you
go to like on a Disney cruise or
anything like that Disney is all about
security and family protection I'm a
little bit shocked that they don't have
two factor authentication authentication
for their service don't they do you know
that they don't I don't know so maybe
I'm just speaking gibberish but maybe
that's what we need to look for to FA to
FA is the answer yeah all the time
exactly so all right we've got to take a
quick break the crypt of a report and
more of this week's top tech stories are
coming up don't go anywhere
welcome back
look at the cryptocurrency report as it
shows on our website category five dot
TV now this week the Bitcoin currency is
down I mean five hundred seventy four
dollars down it's on its decline is that
gonna persist I don't know nobody does
that's the thing okay Facebook Libre
still not trading light coin I mean
everything is down like coin is down at
55 99 so we're talking a loss of five
dollars and 46 cents which for a coin
that's less than $60 in value that's a
pretty big percentage loss 177 dollars
for the etherium coin down eight dollars
and 85 cents mineiro is also down
Scala's down turtle coin is also down I
mean everything is on the decline right
now but what effects that and the thing
that we try to reiterate here at
category five technology TV is that
there is no knowing how the
cryptocurrency market is going to flow
and so you just have to be ready for it
and by being ready for it we suggest
that you only invest what you can afford
to lose it's very possible that you
could lose everything that you invest
it's very possible as well that it could
increase in value we really don't know
because the cryptocurrency market is
always open it never closes
and it's extremely volatile I'm gonna
head back over to the newsroom Sasha
what do you got for us IOT doorbell ring
had a bug in its configuration app which
sent Wi-Fi setup information unencrypted
to some doorbell devices exposing
customers home networks researchers from
a BitDefender notified ring in June of a
flaw in ring video doorbell Pro cameras
software that made it possible for
wireless eavesdroppers to grab the Wi-Fi
credentials of customers during the
devices setup because those credentials
were sent over an unsecured Wi-Fi
connection to the device using
unencrypted HTTP an attacker could take
advantage of this bug by forcing a
victim to recant a reconfigured doorbell
the attacker could use a Wi-Fi the
authorization or deaaath attack
against the device to make it re-enter
configuration mode and could use a
malicious Wi-Fi device to make the ring
doorbell drop off its network the
doorbells owner would then have to
notice that the doorbell is disconnected
which may require the attacker or
someone else to ring the doorbell
before the targeted owner realizes the
doorbell is offline when the doorbell is
put back into configuration mode the app
will offer to reconnect the doorbell to
the Wi-Fi network and then resend the
credentials to the doorbell in an HTTP
message encoded in XML the attacker
would then be able to connect to the
victim's home Wi-Fi network if there are
no other security measures in place to
stop them such as device whitelisting or
partitioning of the Wi-Fi network all
affected devices should now be patched
according to ring and BitDefender but
this is another example of why owners of
Internet of Things devices should
consider using Wi-Fi routers capable of
segmenting networks or offering guest
Wi-Fi networks that restrict access by
connected devices to the internet only
and deaaath attacks can still be used to
knock these devices offline allowing a
burglar or porch pirates to cover their
tracks by disabling video recording
that's a whole lot of work you have to
go through to make it happen but once
you get good at it I'm sure you just do
it I guess I mean I'm glad that they
jumped on it quickly though right was
good yeah exactly so there's these
there's those doorbells right with that
just do like the 30-second video
recording when the doorbell rings but
then there's also like motion detecting
door like there's so many different
Internet of Things devices out there
that the story it doesn't even just
speak to the ring doorbell as much as
like the smart fridges IOT in general
exactly right so the the guest Wi-Fi or
the whitelisted routers yep so that's
how I have my network set it at home is
I have all of my devices white listed
once I connect them smart I log them in
and nothing else can connect so I mean
if somebody comes by the house and like
hey I want to connect sorry not gonna
happen here's the gas net yeah okay
because the gas net is it's segmented
off from my home Wi-Fi all of my devices
are protected they are white listed and
if something shows up on trying to get
in that's not on the white list I start
going on a fishing expedition to find
out what it is
right so Jeff could you similarily set
up a like a guest Wi-Fi connection for
your IOT devices so that things like
smart smart fridges and smart devices
are all connected to their own private
VLAN well my router only allows for your
home network and then your guest net so
I mean I could and I could password my
guest net and make it so that nobody can
join so I could put my I of T things on
the gas net yeah that way they're all
segmented off into that and then have
all my home computers and devices on my
regular Wi-Fi network so I could split
it off that way yeah this means that
anybody who's coming into the house
sorry that I use in the Wow okay sure
fair enough but having something more
sophisticated like a like say a mikrotik
router something like that where you can
set up multiple VLANs that makes a lot
of sense in this scenario so that your
your visitors your guests can use Wi-Fi
because the kids friends are gonna ask
to use the Wi-Fi when they want to play
roblox on their devices right right
that's how it works but but the fact is
I don't want them to have access to my
land servers right what if their laptop
has a ransomware deployment running that
is going to encrypt anything that it
finds on a network as soon as they
connect we don't have any control over
that but what we do have control over is
segmenting the
why in such a way that they only have
access to the Internet and not our
internal land servers and that's
thinking about ransomware but also
thinking about the fact that hey kids
are smart these days I don't want them
having access to my personal files
either so are there different levels of
routers like you said yours just has the
whole shape and then the guest is there
like Internet of Things routers where
you have like a ton of different
segments I think does it come down to
consumer versus commercial but mikrotik
is a very happy medium and I use
mikrotik as an example because we don't
have to go to the four thousand dollar
Cisco we can just go with a five hundred
dollar mikrotik and get the same
features as that four thousand dollar
Cisco that's what's mind-blowing about
it you know I I haven't even spent that
much on my home router like I think our
router was about two hundred and fifty
bucks
yeah so I mean it was it was on the high
end of your you know typical consumer
gear but one of the other things that I
now that I'm thinking about the router I
could have four different segments to it
because I also have the two different
bands the 2.4 in the 5 gig utilize that
I can have a guest and my home network
so I could in theory I do have access to
four different bands now because we've
got a bungalow the five gig doesn't
quite reach the whole house because it
is a shorter range but the 2.4 does he's
not for that one to the kids well it's
funny I mean when we upgrade like when
my wife and I upgrade our phones we'll
give our kids the old phones but then
they've got the old phone that they no
longer use for Wi-Fi and whatnot but I
will pull those off the whitelist
because they're still in the home they
you know they've got an old game on it
whatever but what I don't want is some
you know issue with the software where
there's a vulnerability because they're
no longer updating it I don't want it
accessing our network so I'll pull those
right off that's great forward-thinking
I really I'm telling you I'm not just a
pretty face
mommy's going all right off to Sasha
shall we yes github will preserve open
source code in an Arctic vault github
has announced its plans to launch the
Arctic code vault with the aim to
preserve open source software for future
generations for at least 1,000 years the
code sharing site is partnering with the
long now foundation the Internet Archive
the software heritage foundation Arctic
world archive Microsoft Research the
both lien library and Stanford libraries
to ensure the long-term preservation of
the world's open source software the
github announcement states quote there's
a long history of lost technologies from
which the world would have benefited as
well as abandoned technologies which we
found unexpected new uses end quote
the company plans to store and preserve
open source software like flutter and
tensorflow in an abandoned coal mine in
Norway 250 meters deep in the permafrost
of an Arctic mountain github stores its
data on specialized ultra durable Felmy
which is coated in iron oxide powder
this data can be read by a computer or a
human with a magnifying glass in case of
a global power outage remarkably this
film is said to last for 1,000 years
the Norwegian tech company that makes
the special film said that they might
even last for up to 2,000 years if
stored in a cool dry and low oxygen cave
among the first dotted deposits
open-source software codes can be stored
at the vault included the Linux and
Android operating systems and 6000 other
important open-source applications
github is preparing to capture a
snapshot of every active public
repository on February 2nd 2020 and
preserve that data in the Arctic code
vault the snapshot will include public
code repositories as well as significant
dormant repositories as if that's not
impressive enough github is also working
on Microsoft's project silica to our
all active public repositories for over
10,000 years by writing them into courts
of glass platters with lasers this is
awesome that this is awesome it's a very
interesting story it reminds me of is it
called the Noah project there's that
vault where they they're storing all of
the seeds right yeah it's kind of like
that but what's interesting is they've
given a date so arbitrary right but they
gave February the second 2020 so it's OH
- OH - two zero two zero didn't even
catch that that's amazing so I mean I'm
sitting here going okay so you've
announced a date yes and if I'm quite
frankly a social jerk and wanna like
upload a repository of like viruses and
all this kind of stuff under open source
that's the day I'm gonna make sure that
I've got a repository out there of bad
stuff Oh Jeff the dark side well you'll
be stored in a cave for ten thousand
years yes but I mean this is the world
we live in this is how he thinks folks
Oh February 2nd so yeah I'd better make
some viruses we're gonna be in like 2000
years we're gonna be down in this cave
I'm by we I don't mean me but we're
gonna be down in the cave the
open-source version of usage sascha 2.0
it's defying glass have a global
shortage and I know you're like oh good
good good oh no Jeff was here I'm the
bad guy I just you're putting it out
there I think you open up the door for
people going on I'm gonna put you know
that out there I mean then the cool
thing about it though is you also have
people going hold on my my repository is
gonna be categorized in that day I
better make sure it's good it looks good
make sure the ramiz are just right
that's right yeah anybody with a
misspelling mistake is gonna be like oh
they just archived that for a thousand
years I know right ten thousand years
Jeff I love this because it makes like
digital like tangible right yeah whereas
I was watching a documentary on the film
industry and how it's going digital and
they're doing away with film and now now
if the technology shifts and changes
there's not going to be a way to access
the archives of our films right so now I
want them to hear this story and use
this same iron oxide cool film stuff and
find another cave and we can just save
all of our goods you're you're such a
happy person yes no disagreement there
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a suite Linux
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at patreon.com slash
newsroom from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson and I'm Jeff Weston
alright folks well hey this has been a
lot of fun we've got to take a really
quick break and hey don't go anywhere
stick around okay
welcome back to category five technology
TV it's been an amazing episode that
server build excellent news but that's
not all next week is where it gets
really exciting because we're gonna be
taking a look at a brand new Amazon echo
flex it's a modular version of the echo
that will fit perfectly in a stucking
I'm not talking about your songs I'm
talking about the thing that hangs over
the chimney talking Christmas presents
you don't want to miss it good I like
the way you think k don't forget we are
on patreon you can head on over to
patreon comm slash category 5 and also
Twitter hey please follow us category 5
TV I am personally on twitter at robbie
ferguson and I do incidentally follow
back so hey if you follow me I'll follow
you that's how it works around here we
also have edited down clips on YouTube
called Linux tech show you can head on
over to Linux tech show com to find out
more about that but for this week that's
all the time that we have I'm Robby
Ferguson and over to that desk over
there
I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm Jeff Dustin
thanks everybody take it easy
