here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
remember Microsoft's Patch Tuesday
security update with all the critical
security fixes Sophos is telling us
telling us users to roll it back if they
want to be able to boot their computer
baltimore's ransomware nightmare could
last weeks more with big consequences as
houses can't be sold and bells can't be
paid while city networks are shuttered
South Korea wants to switch car switch
government computers to Linux based
software ditching Microsoft Windows in
the process and Google admitted Tuesday
it's paid for G suite of cloudy apps
aimed at businesses stored some user
passwords in encrypted plain text these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top textiles
slave Linux bias Jeff Weston gentlemen
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you you're a terrible
actor what this we're acting comes into
play you're supposed to act okay I'm
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost
I'm sorry Rickman and here are the top
stories were following this week
security fixes so folks is telling its
users to roll it back if they want to be
able to boot their computer these are
the same patches that protect servers
against the latest Intel exploits in an
in an advisory note published over the
weekend Sophos admitted that the latest
batch of Windows updates are causing the
machines of some people using its
antivirus software to hang on boot well
getting stuck while displaying the
message configuring thirty percent it's
advice on what to do is pretty blunt
uninstall Windows Update specifically
revert KB four four nine nine one six
four and KB four four nine nine one six
five the problem with that advice is
that the patches are intended to
mitigate a nasty vulnerability which
permits on a fake on asik authenticated
remote code execution through the Remote
Desktop service we pointed out last week
that the issue is so serious that
Microsoft has even released patches for
its long unsupported operating systems
Windows 2003 and Windows XP Sophos
themselves have also reiterated the
severity of this exploit yet their
advice remains remove the fit
Microsoft is taking this bug very
seriously saying the vulnerability could
be abused to spread a worm similar to
the way the wanna cry propagated
networks a couple of years back so far
nobody has seen and in the wild use of
the exploit for this vulnerability
identified by Microsoft but in this day
and age it's only a question of time
especially now that miscreants know
about the issue quote Sophos is working
diligently on determining the issue and
will provide ongoing customer guidance
and quote in other words they're being
vague about what the problem is how long
it will be before they fix it for their
users very concerning beanbag go figure
yeah but a security company who says hey
remove the security patches that's
dangerous yeah yes and these are
dangerous precedent exactly yeah so
asking somebody to remove the update
that protects them from the wanna click
wanna cry like exploit seems worse to me
than saying I'm sorry that you've lost
your computer hang tight we'll figure
something out sorry it's second 30% Lee
you know what I mean like I wouldn't be
saying to people now just go ahead and
uninstall you know what let's fix the
problem yeah make it so it's not a
problem yes amazing wonder if I don't
and even if it was just somebody going
well what have they do in the meantime
I'll just all install it like you know
well somebody just not thinking like
well they can just get rid of it I think
they just determined that this is a
problem between Sophos and the Windows
Update so what do you do do you remove
Sophos no Linux you don't oh yeah
install the update that's going to
protect against a huge ransomware
exploit like it's gonna be huge
can be it could be huge no I mean this
is a code execution exploit that allows
not only the execution but the
propagation of a worm
right on a network of computers so with
one compromised computer which is easy
to compromise and to elevate your
privileges to a pole
where you can execute tasks as the
administrator without any intervention
or issue yeah I don't even having to
know about it was serious enough that
Windows was willing to yeah like
Microsoft Microsoft was like hey
antiquated unsupported operating systems
here like like I will happily cover this
update for you the problem is though
chances are if somebody's still running
an old version like XP or something
their system may not be able to handle
the upgraded software like you couldn't
just take an old XP computer and put
Windows 10 on like a low it grind to a
halt but also that brings to mind
another thought is that if you're using
Windows XP and you have Sophos you are
using an old version of Sophos right you
can't install the new version because it
requires Windows 10 right that's
something I haven't thought of yet you
just install Linux that's our answer to
everything
yes if you want to breathe new life into
your computer and forget about all these
woes that you hear about week after week
because we're always going on about
Microsoft screwing things up and
breaking things and sitting at 30%
updated because I work in the industry
especially if you get to 30% quickly
that's the thing oh it's just clocking
along I'll just go whip up a grilled
cheese or something going on back like
yeah you're like oh wait hold on here
something I always end up doing the or
the updates overnight mm-hmm and that
way I don't have to also you plan your
Windows Update I plan my updates Wow
that's a novel idea it doesn't implanted
a and my two options are update and
shutdown or update and restart and I'm
like oh wait now that's it
and from the mind of soul boo in our
chat room whoo
as computers are like air conditioners
they don't work properly if you open
windows Oh burn
last word mic drop yeah Baltimore's
ransomware nightmare could last weeks
more with big consequences as houses
can't be sold and bills can't be paid
while city networks are shuttered it's
been nearly two weeks since the city of
Baltimore's networks were shut down in
response to a ransomware attack and
there's still no end in sight to the
attacks impact it might be weeks more
before the city services returns or
something resembling normal manual
workarounds are being put in place to
handle some services now but the city's
water billing and other payment system
to remain offline as well as most of the
city's emails and much of the
government's phone systems unlike the
city of Atlanta which suffered from a
samsam ransomware attack in March of
2018 Baltimore has no insurance to cover
the cost of a cyber attack so the cost
of cleaning up the Robin Hood ransomware
which will far exceed the approximately
$70,000 the ransomware operators
demanded will be borne entirely by
Baltimore citizens
Baltimore's information security manager
warned of the need for such a policy
during a budget hearing last year but in
the final the final budget did not
include funds for that policy nor did it
include funding for expanded security
training for city employees or other
strategic investments that were part of
the mayor's strategic plan for the
city's information technology
infrastructure city officials have
provided a few details about the extent
of the attack as the city is cooperating
with an FBI investigation but it appears
that the ransomware was triggered on
some systems in the early hours of May
7th when email service was suddenly
interrupted the city's response to the
attack has thrown many city services
into disorder or shut them down entirely
the attack was first reported by
Baltimore's Department of Public Works
when the department's official Twitter
account announced that its email access
was cut off and it reported phones and
other systems were affected soon
afterward
as it became clear what was happening
the city's office of information
technology team shut down nearly all of
the city's non-emergency systems to
prevent the further spread of the attack
it's not clear how widespread the
ransomware was within the network but
the city's email and IP based phones
were among the systems affected the
mayor's office of information technology
has been struggling to regain its
footing over the past two years after a
string of fire chief information
officers four consecutive CIOs were
fired or forced to resign over a period
of five years Frank Johnson who now
holds the titles of both cio and digital
officer for the city was hired in
November 2017 after leaving a position
as a regional vice president of sales
for Intel Johnson led the development of
a digital strategy for the city that
aimed to bring Baltimore's IT spending
more in line with those of similar sized
cities and transform its IT practices
according to a 2018 strategy document
Baltimore spends about half of what
other cities budget for IT and the
office of information technology only
controls about 1% of the total budget
the city's primary website is hosted on
Amazon Web Services and operated by a
contractor but the city almost lost that
website earlier this month - but not
because of ransomware the contracts for
operating the site had expired and the
city was delinquent in its payments
first of all yeah did they use Sophos by
any chance they'd like remove the
patches that were gonna protect them
from this I feel like as this story went
on this was just a series of unfortunate
event mistakes that could have easily
have prevented the whole thing like when
you say oh they had an IT strategy but
they didn't yeah
they oh they talked about increasing the
budget line for training but they didn't
oh they had people that weren't doing
their job so they got rid of him and
they hired somebody else
it didn't work it's like they finally
hired an IT person who knows what
they're doing doesn't listen to them
right who pitched a great idea yeah and
they just ignore them like can you
imagine that guy be like knock knock
knock I just want to say told yourself
exactly so remember that but like it
that I told you might happen and
probably would happen but you know
what's something you know what sucks
he's a person just like us right it's
still his job yeah and you're still just
trying to eat your way through life you
know right and now these these
ransomware guys that have got a hold on
that city for the second time in 12
months right so now what listen to your
IT manager the person that you hired
what to be your CIO
and put some money into infrastructure
that is going to protect you from these
types of attacks don't be an idiot
but I feel like people need to wise up
in today's sure they do
Tech why does it take having to have an
entire city compromised twice in a row
are they gonna wise up now they gotta be
smart like I get budgets I get you know
cost savings but there are certain
things that you just don't want to
ignore it's it's kind of like life
insurance you know you should have life
insurance because you never know what's
gonna happen in life and a lot of people
like oh I can't afford life insurance I
don't want a bit maybe I'll never die
but you want to have that protection and
it's same with the tech look it's going
to happen in today's world something bad
is going to happen protect yourself
right so now the city of Baltimore the
residents are going to have to foot the
bill for the ransomware yeah hold on and
not even just to recover yeah for them
consider this the cost to mitigate
proactively would have been less right
than the cost to mitigate reactively
right think about that the number of
days that have been lost by workers the
the amount of money that they're having
to still pay staff yeah oh you have to
bring in their home laptop because they
can't use work computers but not only
that I mean imagine I don't want to
imagine but you think about the fact
that people can't pay their water bill
what happens when the city goes okay we
got it all fixed now I know it's been
three months but you now almost three
months of water bill and people are
going I don't have three months of water
bill like that money is gone I'm know
granted they should have budgeted but is
there gonna be repercussions to this
where it's like we know I know we
couldn't take your money for three
months but now you also everything and
cuz you know we got a patient a fee for
late payment so you're thinking they're
gonna have to collect on debts do
themselves in order I could totally see
that hotness yeah and that's just not
fair to the citizens who are probably
sitting there thinking like I am what
the heck yeah what is our government
doing just about I mean and this is this
trickles down this is not just a
government thing this is not just a
Baltimore thing this is a business thing
I've had customers who have been in the
same situation where ransomware has hit
after I've made suggestions for
proactive prevention right and backups
backups are a huge deal and ransomware
has hit and then they look at the cost
of recovery okay let's get back up and
running let's okay we're back in
business
two weeks later right after losing so
much business and so much time and then
okay let's just keep going along okay
we've we've we've recovered no hold on
you still don't have active backups you
still don't have proactive protection
against this thing and you still have
bloomin remote desktop turned on on your
computers what the heck are you thinking
no we need to stop this now so that it
doesn't happen again and then it happens
again this is what happened to Baltimore
right and this is what I've seen time
and time again and it's infuriating and
yet I I'm just the indignant IT guy that
is like ight I told you so
right I told you so but not so much as
not to rub it in your face but to say
come on please listen to me right so
please just spend the money
proactiveness your what is your script
kind of sound like okay this time you
didn't prevent it but let's fix it and
let's prevent it for the future like it
always comes down to the money though
and that's where it's like okay you need
to be proactive but how do they assume
that they're not gonna be hit again like
how do these you know nobody's gonna be
hit twice
nobody's designed we have three dots the
issue I people think they're not gonna
hit that I already got hit yeah I'm good
they're gonna move on it doesn't work
that way you still have remote desktop
turned on and and I think we need to get
through our heads - mm-hmm that
ransomware attacks are very often
untargeted rights we fall into this
complacent state where we believe that
ransomware attacks are targeted no they
just look why would anyone want to
attack me exactly it's not a person
looking at you as a business your
company it's a dress on that's just
looking for an open door and then they
find it and they get you it's like so
think of it this way so ransomware is
the teenage kid that is walking through
a parking lot of a mall pull in on every
door handle pulling on every door handle
just to see what one opens yeah and as
soon as one opens what do they do
I'm not saying teenage kids are bad I
mean this is just an example just to put
an analogy on open a door opens what's
on the seat what's what's easy to grab
right right so similarly if you've got
doors open and they're walking around
these are the bots you're just walking
around pulling on door handles yeah it's
not a targeted thing it wasn't your car
that they targeted you left the stupid
door open that's right so lock your
doors folks and if it costs money to put
a lock in then do it and if we've
learned anything from Baltimore its what
it is
listen to Robbie yeah buy money
antivirus
yeah love you good sale ok great except
they have no money left South Korea
wants to switch government computers to
Linux based software nice yeah
ditching Oh Microsoft Windows in the
process the country's Ministry of the
Interior and safety believe that
migrating away from Microsoft Windows
will lower costs and reduce reliance on
a single operating system with 2020
bringing the end of free support for
Windows 7 a system widely used
throughout the South Korean government
the timing is prudent there's no word
yet on what sort of Linux distribution
South Korea might use or whether the
government would create its own but
there are a few hurdles Linux needs to
clear first
although Linux is free to use for
anybody even government a moving to a
Linux based OS is not a cost-free
endeavor in fact the ministry expects
switching to Linux will cost a cool 655
million dollars u.s.
that takes into account the price of a
little implementation transition and the
purchase of new pcs the ministry plans
to test run Linux audited systems to
check for compatibility and security
issues and if no major issues are
encountered during the pilot run then
Linux systems will roll out more widely
potentially serving as the catalyst for
more governments to adopt Linux whether
South Korea switches to Linux in the end
or not it's nice that Linux is being
viewed as a viable practical choice by
those in charge I'd have to agree with
that
ah yeah mm-hmm absolutely way to go
South Korea you rock that's kind of the
trend that we're in though right like if
you are on Windows 7 in your networks
and you have to upgrade or pay for
support after January why not be looking
at it boom - sure why not be looking at
some flavor of Linux that is a rolling
release
there's no with Linux there's no none of
this Windows 7 Windows 10 you know
whatever's next and having to buy an
upgrade every computer know you can you
can roll out roll
upgrades when a new version comes out
you roll to the next version right and
it continues to be free so your
reallocating those funds from licensing
to labor essentially so you're giving
jobs to your people and and and funding
families and people within your
community and and at the same time
licensing licensing you're using the
license of free software rights can
taste fantastic you will not be the last
you may be the first but you will not
not even the first it's big I mean
that's a big number and and so I I'm not
sure what number of computers that
represents but it's gotta be huge well
more than five at least five at least
five at least five yeah and it has we
talked about antivirus and things like
that and so then it's like okay well how
does that impact the bottom line of
antivirus now yeah malware right and
then we've got to start looking at okay
so even if you're on linux you still
need to have some kind of proactive
protection so that if there are rogue
things occurring within your network
that you are aware of those so it shifts
you're shifting from antivirus because
viruses are not an issue - simple and
simple remediation of or even being able
to monitor assets in such a way that you
can track malicious traffic mm-hmm I
wonder is a notification a notification
subsystem so a different thing
altogether but South Korea just like
call Baltimore now right now cuz their
phones are working but hey guys we've
got this great idea yeah hey switch to
Linux if this works out you might want
to give it a try oh if a bouns who gets
the contract maybe canonical can make
that call
[Laughter]
Google admitted Tuesday it's paid for
gee sweet of cloudy apps aimed at
businesses stored some user passwords in
encrypted plaintext hashing is a
standard industry practice that protects
credentials by scrambling them using a
one-way encryption algorithm
administrators of accounts affected by
the security blunder were warned via
email that in certain circumstances
passwords had not been hashed Google was
at pains to stress it was the enterprise
non-consumer version of G suite affected
that there were no signs of misuse of
the passwords and that the passwords
were encrypted at rest on the disk
though because they were not hashed to
their sensitive contact was not fully
secured Suzanne Suzanne fry Google VP of
engineering and cloud trust explains of
the administrators ability to change
user passwords quote we made an error
when implementing this functionality
back in 2005 the admincat sole stored a
copy of the unhatched password this
practice did not live up to our
standards to be clear these passwords
remained in our secure encrypted
infrastructure this issue has been fixed
and we have seen no evidence of improper
access or misuse of the affected
passwords further she went on to advise
of a second flaw this one in the user
login system saying we discovered that
starting in January 2019 we had
inadvertently stored a subset of
unhatched passwords in our secure
encrypted infrastructure these passwords
were stored for a maximum of 14 days
this issue has been fixed and again we
have seen no evidence of improper access
to or misuse of the effected passwords
we will continue with our security
audits to ensure that this is an
isolated incident end quote Google has
already begun changing passwords for
affected accounts that have not already
done so
hmm well I mean that's a good news story
that it wasn't used maliciously I can't
that we know right but I need help of
wonder how did it go on since 2005 and
not get noticed I don't know they're
being very transparent about it and so
there are you know there's a couple of
different facets to this story and that
okay well who did have access to it and
were there any exploits that would have
allowed a malicious party to access that
data of course internal staff could have
accessed that data but there's no
evidence to say that they did right so
it's an internal infrastructure so it's
like they it they're there and they're
like locked away on a disk like not to
be accessed from the outside world they
are somewhat encrypted they're encrypted
but they're not hashed so they're like
first loved loved they were like
password with password 1 2 3 kind of
thing there's a password there's you
know well let's let's to summarize what
this means as far as security goes so an
encrypted block can theoretically be a D
encrypted there right right unencrypted
so that data can be recovered and we're
in reversed ok a hashed block or of
information typically if it's done
correctly is done in such a way that it
it's one direction though encrypted yeah
but if it's properly done like a hash if
it's just a hash then it's it's a it's
not reversible
ok so how does that make sense so what
use is it if you can't reverse it so if
if you say to me ok my password is
password 1 2 3 right and I say okay
here's my hashing algorithm and that is
now hashed as this okay and it's this
bunch of gibberish okay so I can never
take that hashed information and turn it
back into password 1 2 3 however because
I know the hashing algorithm if you ever
come to me with the password
say my password is password 1 2 3 I can
then hash that and say ok let's compare
that to the hash does it match yes it
matches I'll allow you access so even
though I don't know your password I
don't know what the hash is the the
decrypted hash I do know that if you
enter your password again I can hash
again using the same algorithm and will
result in the same result this is the
moment where I get it yeah versus
encryption which is taking password one
two three and just obfuscating it and
encrypting it which can then be
unencrypted back into password 1 2 3 god
it's a different a different direction
of protection right so hashing is much
more secure ok
significantly said this right like when
you know better you do better like
they've said ok sure they know yeah they
know better yeah some some intern god
let go over this I'm I'm sure they were
around in 2005 it was probably me all
right well we've got to jump into our
cryptocurrency market just to see where
things lie and things are not looking
quite as nice as they were last week I
mean if you took my advice which didn't
I give but if you bought Bitcoin last
week of course it was high and it's gone
down about $430 us it is now sitting at
seven thousand seven hundred and eleven
dollars and sixty-five cents litecoin is
down to eighty eight fifty for u.s.
dollar equivalent
aetherium is the one coin that we track
that has gone up just a little ways by
four dollars and twenty three cents us
and is currently sitting at two hundred
and forty five dollars and seventeen
cents Manero is at eighty four nineteen
also losing about eight bucks and torque
AKA stellite or PKA stellite is down at
one point five four ten thousandth of a
cent and your turtle coin Jeff I'm sorry
is only a one point two six ten
thousandth of a cent right so those
three turtle coin you have I have save
every yeah do you well done sir
actually lost out yeah that's a good
place to be in when it comes to
cryptocurrency big thanks to Roy W Nash
in our community of viewers for
submitting stories house this week
thanks for watching the category five
dots V newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
and sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie
Ferguson no Jeff Weston
[Music]
[Applause]
