merchandising merchandising yeah you had
a question
yeah so in our chat room on disk or one
of the questions is when are we going to
see more Orval merchandising like what
is it gonna be everywhere like Orval
like it's literally coming you know I'm
not the marketing guy where I do work
with some of the marketing people and
like in fairness you know we're not a
there's a term for it that they call us
like a shell it's like a line of Walmart
or or they have like a colloquial
term for it but you know we're a little
more niche but there is things coming as
you know the Eagle mouth stuff is coming
that we got Corbin effects doing stuff
yeah there's some there's there's gonna
be toys and gadgets and fun that you can
buy awesome and I think that speaks
again to like you guys close to eat why
young guys were like we want phasers
Blazers and friendships like now we're
like alright we need to try and make it
we have you know really cool training
even the fans have made a really cool
stuff that were like oh man like we need
to do that to have some of this in my
office but you know but a lot of this is
going to roll out between now and the
premiere and you know it's it's in
production now so there is stuff coming
but it's never I'm telling you no it's
not a world right now unless you know
suddenly we get marveled sighs where
we're gonna have Kenner figures made of
everybody it's just that's that's that's
a very specific model of some very large
franchises and yeah maybe someday we'll
get there but that that takes a little
bit of history and time I'm not saying
I'm not opposed to it I would love it
but well I takes time to build up to
that level I would love to throw some
money at diecast models yes
Johnny Eagle Moss and our friends at
Corbin are coming out with ships as well
so you're gonna be able to play with
little or gel's
at some point Johnny a ring is Johnny a
reed is hoping to see some krill maybe
some action figures would be pretty cool
pew pew pew pew
Johnny can just just freakin - yeah
[Laughter]
