[Music]
welcome to today's coffee break
everybody nice to have you here you're
all well so boo I see I see bp9 I see
Peter as well hey guys good morning it's
a small intimate crowd today we're in
day two of the kids doing school from
home oh goodie in that an interesting
scenario like that here we are you know
not not to bring about you know I don't
I don't want to talk about but it is so
cool that the technology exists now that
work from home is possible these kind of
zoom meetings and similar kind of
meetings are possible now the kids are
sitting with their classmates and the
teacher is presenting a class through
the internet
so the teacher has a video camera just
like we do just like we're doing here
with zoom and exactly right exactly
right and now they're using using online
tools to present the curriculum and then
the kids have to actually log into this
website to be able to do their
curriculum so that's the news today in
two weeks there for the first four
years four classes one two four starting
up again hey Bo Bo we were saying very
nice things about you yesterday during
our coffee Oh oh I hope you're not being
sarcastic never be sarcastic he would
you never do hey Bo the conversation
kind of went our Virtual Assistants
yesterday is I found like some of the
this text is really evolving and getting
smart and and the the thought came to
mind as some of the guys that were a
part of our coffee break yesterday were
concerned about the privacy behind
things like Amazon echo and Google home
and then what came to mind was Mycroft
right yeah well first of all they should
be concerned about privacy because
there's huge privacy concerns but then
again there's also I mean our phones are
our main privacy leak but when you allow
a digital assistant into your home along
with your phone then that's just that
much more so Amazon echo knows when I
get up and when I go to bed and when I
ask what the weather forecast is and
what music I like and also whatever you
say anything was an ER shot of it if I
use if I use the keyword no it's
actually always recording yes recording
seriously I have you still there yes so
here can you sorry my phone was ringing
yeah I did say no I didn't you go can
you tell us about Mycroft I'd be
interested in knowing more about it it's
not something I've been able Mycroft was
born in 2016 in Kansas City at a
makerspace from what I understand I've
had some personal dealings with the
company they've contacted us to do some
cooperative work last year but we
haven't heard from them for a little
while so I just checked their website to
see if anything had changed and still
said that they were planning to go into
mass production in late 2019 or early
2020 well it's a little bit past early
2020 and we still haven't seen anything
so they haven't updated their website
either but they do they do some
corporate consulting as well for 4ai so
that and they've they've received like
over two million dollars in an investor
funding I don't know it's probably more
than that now but but Mycroft itself is
an open source project so any Linux
computer can run it including a single
board computer so you don't actually
yeah I'm sorry my question would be the
various digital assistants like yeah I
won't say them because I don't want to
trigger the action words but are they
the just Mycroft work the same way that
they that it has to talk to a server
before it can understand your request
does it have the same oh it's all done
luckily it's all done locally yep Wow
it'll got the Internet to get
information but it won't process your
your requests over the Internet
actually I'm not surprised because I'm
sorry I have a cat in my lap but I'm
surprised because because I have a
Synology box and and I went ahead and
enabled
program on the cords called moments you
just dump your photos into the moments
folder and it will categorize them it
will figure out where you know where the
faces are or figure out what the subject
of a photo is without going to a central
service to do it it would be does it all
locally now it will take some time now
you know it's not instantaneous by any
means and and it gets stuff wrong
sometimes Google photos it's not but
it's pretty damn good
and it certainly pics it certainly pics
faces of people that I've got in my
photos from that I've been converting
from 35 millimeter film to digital and I
think it's bumping them into these the
moments folder in the Synology box and
it just it just categorizes them it just
figures it out and it's the most amazing
thing I've ever seen in it with
absolutely worth that the spending the
dollars on the Synology box because when
you convert that to the manual time it
would have taken for me to train
categorize and manually impart there's
no way I could have done it for that
kind of time or you know right yeah well
that's another thing about my craft is
that it has programmable keyword or wait
word okay you're not gonna start
anybody's mycroft on accident yeah I was
more concerned about studying other
people's digital assistants you know
right unlike Amazon you're not gonna be
able to trigger other people's my crops
by talking about it unless of course
they use a simple word like Mycroft
again yeah yeah Robbie they've wrote a
while back
Robbie it's a pro people to rate destroy
build early glyphs and things you buy
beautiful
and you call pea bikes into the trip
road and it was paid today real time
yeah that's cool
copy and paste clipboard to do
text-to-speech so
back to Mycroft bow does does Mycroft
like can you talk to it like you can
with Amazon echo definitely that's fully
voice enabled so the the latest version
that they were working on that Mycroft a
I was working on it has a screen things
like three and a half inch or 5 inch
screen something like that built-in
speakers stereo speakers with the pretty
good sound quality and still about the
size of you know of a cup you gotta set
up a server like what's immediately
coming to mind is we were thinking about
what can we do with a pine phone oh yeah
right as a server and they were
considering using the pine 864 B which
is a Raspberry Pi sized board yeah I
don't know if that's still the plan or
not that's the last thing we were
discussing the pine 64 H 64b is is a
pretty powerful board at a pretty good
price so yeah I don't know what's the
status right now like I said it doesn't
seem like but maybe they put on the back
burner or something I don't know
Marianne they might have some bigger
projects or bigger fish to fry
have you tried is it is it usable in its
current state yeah see - a while back
and I actually haven't like implemented
it in my house I think my wife like that
if I didn't but privacy I'm I'm a little
paranoid when it comes to privacy
you know I think with mmm
to not talk too much about the current
situation but but we can see how how
easy it is and you know I'm not gonna
say whether it's legitimate or not but
we can see how easy it is for the
government to change our lifestyle based
off of information so that I've heard
that people that governments are
actually tracking people's social
distancing practices via their
smartphones and and and other data that
they're not they're not agreeing to
share explicitly but but places like
Google and Amazon have access to
that's anonymous though right if you
only am attracting a certain device who
is only that device but over a week or
over a month if they're if they advise
at the eight o clock in the morning
travels from home from a certain point
and then can figure out yeah anonymous
data is a photo so you know what they're
doing it's very easy to pinpoint I made
that facial recognition in malls where
they're like oh but we don't have any
data about the people but I can tell if
you know Robbie the guy in the blue
shirt if I see the blue shirt way down
there I still know that's Robbie even
though the AI doesn't tell me yeah well
not only that but your phone if it's
logged if it's Android let's say an
Android phone it's logged into your
Google account and Google knows your
location so they can they can pinpoint
exactly if the GPS is running in the
phone not necessarily they also did by
Wi-Fi triangulation
other methods as well but that's nowhere
near as accurate dark as for the
purposes of social distancing it's hard
to it put uh purposes of social
distancing it's hard to check to see if
people are complain when you don't have
GPS and you can't even trust the GPS
data on phones because they have a
tolerance of about two or three meters
so if you people are passing each other
three meters apart it can show up on the
map as if they shook hands before they
moved on yeah but I don't have the GPS
on my phone and I bought it but you
can't you can't turn it off completely
even though you have location services
disabled it doesn't mean that the GPS is
not working I've read a number of
different articles about it but it's
gonna be different because the toggle
switches yes was the pine phone you can
actually toggle things off physically
it's not exactly easy to do because they
take off the back cover let's say that
you don't want well first of all from
the baseline you're going to be more
private off of on a pine foam because
it's not gonna have it's gonna be you
know ungoogleable
you know not Google it's gonna be non
Amazon and on Apple besides I have any
of those services running on of course
you may be able to add those services on
to it but they won't have those enabled
by default so unless you load something
some program that starts reporting on
your location or something like that
then you're not gonna have to worry
about it what many people Faraday cage
over-the-air will have got the are up in
picked up yeah but also it would also
stop your phone from working because you
won't be able to make or receive phone
calls
well you can you can tune your Faraday
cage for different frequencies enemy of
the state from 97 they have working off
the grid and they in an old building
they built a cage full of steel bars and
they were surprised that it actually
worked
and they made a comment in the comment
section that this was the first time in
the history of using wireless
microphones to make movies that they
couldn't use any kind of oil as the
devices inside of the package so they
have put wires inside about this exact
same thing they have and it all we're
coming from there because I had tried
petrol and say they they put I like a
metal like a better show dudes or the
brickwork vibe and a log bad I could try
it works too bloody well because you
become yeah it's like I want good signal
yeah I've never heard of a Faraday cage
being tuned I don't I didn't think that
was possible
I thought a Faraday cage alright yeah
okay I think you can adjust the the mesh
yeah oh I've never tried that so even if
one have a phone that you cannot turn
off location services with GPS if you
really want to go on
all right and you don't want anyone to
know that you're going and leave the
phone yeah exactly yeah but yeah we what
I was going to mention was that if you
decide to pursue a path of privacy
digital privacy and security it's an
uphill battle because our starting point
is a point of non security and non
privacy yeah and so you have to fight
every step of the way to get away from
that into us into a place of privacy and
security so let's say you're using a VPN
right to do some browsing on your
Android phone and let's say you want to
look up something about government
conspiracies or something else that
might be a trigger for agency I don't
know so you log into your VPN and then
you start browsing well that's fine as
far as these sites that you're going to
use concerned but but if using Chrome or
if you are logged into your Google
services while you're doing it
the information can be reported back you
have to trust in the app and provide it
right and then you can use something
like tour to go browsing but then you
also have to make sure you're on in
privacy mode and and that you aren't
logged into any sites on tour basically
you know be like completely anonymous so
you bring up door and and the story
comes to mind I had I had a friend a
squeeze he's just out of curiosity how
do I get on the dark web I said and he's
at work and I said whatever you do do
not search for that in Google he works
at a company that manufactures
fertilizer Isaac
every mr. magic
I really government weightlessly because
of terrorism
ain't they definitely but they take
everywhere well I am live now there's
everybody listening because of terrorism
yeah if you have to be careful what you
die terrorism is the big is the big
leave it to soul boo to make it dark
around yeah thanks so much good job well
I think that that's there's definitely I
can understand from a government
perspective
yeah and I'm surely glad they catched
you know closet terrorists before they
actually have a chance to act right and
and part of that is because privacy is
so hard to obtain on the digital web so
it's it's better for a peaceful
government to do it and yeah I think all
we've learned from soul boo today is
when you're going to do your terrorism
leave your phone at home now but I have
a question for you about the pine the
pine phone okay when you showed it to us
last time I was trying to figure out and
I don't know if you can help me answer
this I was trying to figure out if the
phone application that runs on the on
the pine phone has any way is there any
way for it to connect to something like
a card bad server do you know or is
there any way to keep it to to keep a
list of contact names like you would
with with the Android phone contacts
okay so there's a tricky question
because okay the pine phone is only
hardware there are a number of software
Oh s's and each one of those software
os's
that run on the pine phone can have
multiple variants with multiple
applications so if you don't like the
phone app that's on your Bluetooth touch
let's say you could probably replace it
I don't know I haven't tried it I think
you mentioned that there was a that all
of the distros that you are aware of
anyway likely used the same phone
application the iPhone I think it was
yeah iPhone oh yeah I could not decide
oh no I can only find a phone
let me see I think it's ofö I know that
might be why I miss built it okay I'll
look for it yeah okay that's that's why
I completely miss built it I spelt an
oak pho in oh yeah so that won't work
I'm not I'm not positive on that so
don't quote me on that but I have seen
some chatter about a phone on on the
news group or them on the chat groups so
I don't know if that's a lower-level
thing or if that's actual app I think it
might be the lower the lower and lower
level stuff so there's probably GUI
built on top of it I'm thinking that
probably the way to go would be some
kind of an intermediate service that
whoever builds the phone at whether it
be a phone or another app can call this
to get the contact data that they need
what's that this would be so you have
your own contact server so you're in
control of your cloud basic all I do now
I do have been doing you could take to
any card ad service I mean you could
cheat to your Google card dev service if
you wanted to mate if you were if you
are crazy but it's my
i data i keep my data in my machines in
my name that's why i had my own car dev
and my own CalDAV service but I could
just as easily stink 2 a.m. to someone
else's car devil CalDAV service if I
wanted to I don't want to but I could my
point is though that it doesn't make
sense for all the different phone
applications to implement all that funky
vCard
syntax you know passing a non-permanent
and passing PA RSP where the tries to
decode what the v card looks like in
order to mind the information out of it
and building it back up seems to me it
would make sense to to centralize that
into one place well be back in him just
immediately I'm thinking about how I
could do this with PHP you do realize
that I challenge you you go ahead and
build something like that with PHP I'll
build and Sam will see you will see
which one is faster which one works more
importantly work right you're gonna have
PHP cron jobs in no time you can anyway
I mean if you can run a PHP the command
line you've indicated you can you can
run it under crawl so that's oh yeah but
I'm thinking of a service that just
period periodically goes out and
refreshes it's in a backing store and
then just makes it available but it
makes me that that would be separate
from the phone oh because it would be
something that I would want to be able
to put across and when you do those
distros and when you look at it with a
regular phone it's not separate the
actual phone application has all that
embedded in it so it's got its own it's
got its own implementation of reading
writing updating becomes so it's just a
thought that I had but I don't know
there's anything like that out there and
that's what I wanted to ask you about if
you knew
regarding vp9 mr. so one of the things
one of the applications I think the pine
phone is going to be a stellar at is
companies who want to provide their who
normally would provide their employees
of the phone anyway but they can provide
them with a phone that's customized for
that company's needs you know it could
be like synced with the company's CalNet
server and and contact server and you
know they could have they can see where
their employees are it could be
automatic you know logging of their time
based on location so if they're at a
client location then it's automatically
building the client and if it's if
they're traveling they're automatically
getting reimbursed for mileage and if
they're you know if they're at the shop
then you know anybody can see that
they're that they're at the main you
know the main office or whatever yeah
yeah I said I never could it didn't
occur to me but that's very true you can
absolutely customize it to the nth
degree that's all of their own
applications on there so that the
employee can like look up service
agreements or contracts or generate
invoices for a client on spot or
whatever know what you know what's
coming next they kind of want to run
Windows on it you know it responds aleut
wine or something yeah under Linux yeah
usually suddenly saw boot who brings the
negativity years ago 19 not over 1995 85
so shipped you couldn't get over this
bother water they were totally gorgeous
they were used them for terrorism
operations to dip their bombs up and you
couldn't get them for Liza money the
only way I was getting them this little
by Katherine
in a bottle today we know the curve that
does well live and I don't know I was
using borrowed youtube for that reason
over you can put our 50y but you gotta
get the juice anywhere so because of
that and they they put a poor ban on in
Northern Ireland Wow and on that no
folks
you believe a half-hour is already gone
by yeah the time that we have for
today's coffee break tomorrow we're
gonna have another coffee break at about
the same time we will have no speak of
exploding parcels or terrorism it'll
just be nice and relaxed
it's been fun no guys nice to see you
take care see you tomorrow the message
