if folks so first of all we've got the
tinkerer board two gigabyte and the
tinkerer board s so two gigabyte I mean
this is the this is the original model
they call it the 2gb and then we've got
the S as well before I start I want to
mention that we have a coupon code if
you want to head on over to a Marid ride
comm we all know and love them you can
save up to $25 off of this board if you
use the coupon code
ATB s dollar sign 25 off just like you
see on your screen down there this one
here we can save $7 a TV dollar sign
seven off got it okay so first of all
we're gonna jump into the tinkerer board
the this is the original tinker board
packaging this is the tinker board two
gigabyte and let's just jump right into
it folks I'm really excited about these
because a soos has taken the form factor
of a Raspberry Pi and said okay well
let's actually give it a little bit more
powerful a little more power and
definitely you know to two times the
amount of memory on this board so we've
got two gigabytes of onboard memory
we've got 4k video output at 30 frames
per second we still have a Raspberry Pi
GPIO however the tinker board as you see
is quite cleverly color coded and it's a
it's a lovely looking board if you if
you can say that but if you can see it
it looks very very much like a Raspberry
Pi or a Raspberry Pi 3 as far as the
form factor goes and so much so we're
gonna see tonight that it's in fact so
similar that it'll work in the in the
case what else do we have in the box for
the tinker board 2 gigabyte we've got a
heatsink and some paper work
instructions which will just kind of put
back in the box ok Jeff okay
he's like read the manual alright so
there is the tinkerer board and now
let's get into the tinkerer board s so
this is the next model and this is kind
of I would say that this is an enhanced
version of the same board what do we
notice it looks the same it looks like
identical identical be careful
label them whatever you need to do make
sure you know what what one is what so
on the right hand side of your screen
that is the tinkerer board s on the left
hand side of your screen is the tinkerer
board two gigabyte what about underneath
is there different identification on the
bottom what is different here okay so
yeah we've got green on the tinkerer
board and what does it say I'm gonna
turn this around so I can see it says
revision 1.2 on this one it's blue blue
text on the the PCB and it says
strangely revision 1.01 huh wait a
minute this is a lower revision however
it does say tinker board s let's get a
focus on that so you can see oh yeah
there it is so it says right on it
tinker board asked revision 1.01 in the
box again heatsink for the CPU they are
the the SOC and some information I saw
that there is a diagram for the GPIO
which is important for us if we're gonna
start making and let's get rid of the
box let's get rid of all the packaging
okay specifications wise the SOC on both
of these boards are identical so this is
1.8 gigahertz and the SOC of these
boards is the rk3288 that is a quad core
our SOC on the board we have 2 gigabytes
of ddr4 Ram on both of these boards so
so far they're identical same SOC or to
put that in terms that we understand a
little better will say CPU
system-on-chip as SOC so it's like a CPU
that has that is for the the single
board computing we've got two gigabytes
of and I said ddr4 I beg your pardon it
is ddr3 on these boards the GPU is
actually pretty impressive at 4k 30 I
believe it is it's a Mallee t7 64 on
both of these boards so again they're
identical up to this point 802 11 B G
and n Wi-Fi is integrated into both of
these boards and Gigabit Ethernet so if
we're looking at this from the
perspective of a Raspberry Pi and people
are saying on YouTube you know why do
you constantly compare these single
board computers to raspberry PI's and
part of that is because we're all
familiar with a Raspberry Pi yes we can
agree that we all know what a Raspberry
Pi looks like and how it operates and
what it is and its form factors so if I
say hey this is the same form factor as
a Raspberry Pi or this is the same shape
and same size as a Raspberry Pi 3 you
can grasp what that means and so I'm not
saying I'm not trying to compare to a
Raspberry Pi but it's a benchmark and
they've certainly sent the set the bar
for single board computers and both of
these systems are so close in form
factor to a Raspberry Pi 3 that you can
in fact use a Raspberry Pi case for
these devices cool that's handy as I
mentioned both have the color-coded GPIO
which is helpful if you are a tinkerer
but why then if these are so identical
they've got the same SOC they've got the
same amount of RAM the same type of RAM
the same the same Mally graphics adapter
they've got great audio these actually
have fantastic audio 192 24-bit HD audio
so 192 kilohertz so it's it's like
better than CD quality excellent audio
coming off of both these boards if you
want to use them for audio or like if
you want to put this in as a like a
music player or something like that on
your on your home theater system be
perfect for that so what sets these two
apart well the tinkerer board ass takes
things a little bit to the next level
let's look at the backside of the tinker
board and the tinker board s we see that
both of these have a micro SD card
reader do you see this so this is going
to take your storage however there's one
thing that's a little bit different on
the S model and I think that's what
we're looking at right there we have in
fact 16 gigabytes now we do have the SD
card reader micro sd but we also have 16
gigabytes of emmc storage built into
this board so this is something that we
have not seen in a lot of SBC's
typically we have to buy extra storage
for RS pcs this one has 16 gigabytes
built in so where we would normally have
to flash to an emmc card or to an SD
card with the tinker board s we in fact
can plug in and an OT like an OTG cable
or a USB cable into the into the board
fired up and actually flash directly to
the emmc that is on chip so the storage
is built in we don't have to buy that
separately it's all there
it also has bluetooth 4.0 + edr so if
you want to use it with wireless
speakers wireless headphones those kinds
of things or any other Bluetooth device
that is built into the S and those are
kind of the core differences with those
two boards this is just an enhanced
version with the emmc with the Bluetooth
and otherwise they're pretty much
identical as far as I can see so I
mentioned that we can actually use
raspberry pi K so I've pulled out a KK
SB case and let's get a look at this and
see how this is going to work so this I
don't know if you can see is a Raspberry
Pi 3 case from kks B okay so if what I'm
saying is true the tinkerer board should
work perfectly within this case which
was in fact designed for a Raspberry Pi
so if I put that in there now I have of
course four screws that I'm going to
screw in if I was doing this as a like a
permanent installation but just for the
sake of our demonstration we can see
that the holes do a line up see those
okay audio HDMI everything lines up and
how does everything else line up here
let's put the cover on the case I love
kks be cases by the way these are these
are steel cases not aluminum and they
are very high quality so that is a
tinkerer board s now inside a Raspberry
Pi 3 case from KK SB and look at how
beautiful that looks that is perfect and
that nice so we have links for all of
these products if you'd like to support
the show or if you just want an easy way
to get these go to cat5 dot TV slash
tinker board and we're gonna have the
case we're gonna have the boards as well
plus the links to a marriage ride the
coupon codes everything else I'm gonna
jump over to to the set here bring it
with me yeah let's go so head on over to
Kat v dot TV slash tinker board to check
these out
when we come back from a quick break
we're gonna actually plug this in I'm
gonna fire it up and we're gonna see how
it performs right after this
[Music]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today
count 5 dot TV slash shirts welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV and
today we are looking at the Asus
tinkerer board and we've got the ticker
board s as well and I fired it up with
Tinker OS so just during the break there
we plugged it in there it only took
about 10 seconds yes right absolutely
so I downloaded it from their website I
flashed it to an SD card just for the
sake of the show just be able to plug it
in because we have never tested this we
just unboxed it for you and have fired
it up so let's jump over to the asou
stinker board on Tinker OS and here we
are in April 2019 this is what it looks
like so first of all as a Linux user it
looks like LXDE right out of the box and
looks great I mean super responsive now
I'm looking at the asou stinker board 2
gigabyte here today and of course the
the s is going to be more powerful so
out of the box we have just generic kind
of tools we've got them on there like a
text editor calculator which is
calculator and I say I do say that with
like a Linux
yeah let's just call it calculator shall
we under education we've got scratch
scratch gpio Internet what do we have we
have chromium this is all out of the box
folks I haven't installed anything VNC
viewer under programming we've got idle
which is Python scratch again and sound
a video we've got a media player system
tools so let's let's jump up to you know
if we've jumped into Chrome just to kind
of gauge how things run now with this
device of course this is a single board
computer and it literally is like what
you see is what you get
I've just plugged in HDMI and power and
a micro SD card and I've got a wireless
dongle for my mouse so so you can you
can connect everything together and boot
it up and you're you're good to go so
whether you plug that into a TV via HDMI
if you plug that into a computer screen
it becomes a computer whatever you want
to use it for so it's got the GPIO you
can connect things like just like you
can with a Raspberry Pi if you want to
we've become a maker and start doing
like LED lights is a good place to start
I think that's a really great spot to
start and and then take it from there
but it's a lot more powerful than then
you know like a Raspberry Pi and I hate
to say that because I know like that's
that is the baseline like Raspberry Pi
has created a baseline so what we're
looking at is a board that is the same
form factor it operates much the same
way it uses the same kind of software
it's got the same kind of GPIO but it's
a lot faster right it's got twice as
much RAM and it operates really really
well so a seuss doesn't quite have the I
mean they they by far do not have the
same community as say Raspberry Pi right
they don't have the same kind of
open-source community that you would
find in like Pine 64 and and it's
growing but it's it's not quite there
yet so we can become a part of that by
by purchasing one of these getting up
and running and playing around so over
the next little while we're gonna start
to see some benchmark coming in
right our giggle scores are going to
start coming in with NEMS Linux if
you're interested in seeing how these
kind of boards these single board
computers benchmark against one another
you can head over to names Linux comm
slash stats and you'll be able to see
each of these boards and how they're
performing and how they stack up so a
giggle score shows you the value for the
money and speaking of we do have a
coupon which really plays into that yes
so you can actually save $25 off of the
cost of the issues tinker board s which
is the the model that has the Bluetooth
has the emmc built in so I'm going to
post the links for you below in the
description so that you've got access to
those and all the information is
available at our website cap v dot TV
slash tinker board so out of the box not
a lot comes pre-installed but of course
this is Linux and the S has a 16
gigabyte emmc and of course either board
you can plug in a an SD card micro SD
and that gives you extra space as well
and so you can install pretty much
anything you like so what package
manager do we have here do we have
anything file manager we've got a CH top
what do we have under preferences let's
see did you do synaptic package manager
so we have synaptic already installed so
this is a Debian based OS it's asking me
for a password which I can get off of
now I installed tinker OS so I'm going
to grab that password from them and then
I'm gonna be able to install anything
from the repository so that can be games
that can be anything at all right cool
stuff very cool so we're gonna be
looking at those in the next little
while of course the comparisons are
awesome overrun nems Linux Commons I
love seeing how each board stacks up and
when we look at the giggle score which
is the value for the money versus the
performance which is really what we're
interested in with these boards as well
we're gonna be able to see so that
coupon that that can affect the giggle
score yeah that doesn't increase the
giggle score
it's gonna decrease which means the
lower it is the matter value totally
yeah so when you consider you apply a
coupon which is gonna save you money and
now all of a sudden the value for for
the cost is way better than it is that
full price especially when you're saving
25 bucks that's huge so you can pick up
your Seuss tinker bar to cap 5 dot TV
slash tinker board
[Applause]
