welcome to today's coffee break everyone
it is the 30th of March 20 2015 ein how
you doing I'm doing great thank you how
about you
very good I'm just I'm just about ready
to have March finished yeah I heard that
I so good that it's interesting because
like I just feel like April is gonna be
such a time of refreshing because I'm
gonna be handing in my keys to the old
studio tomorrow
pulling the antenna off the roof tonight
and then it's all just unpacking getting
set on sounds like we're now going to be
moving into an exciting time for the
studio yeah now you you you're not
planning to start your knit cast again
until 22nd is that what I heard is that
I said hey I understand it 22nd is the
plan okay
and for those who are wondering what
what on earth are you talking about we
have 24 hours remaining for our
Kickstarter campaign so this was
initially to to ensure that category 5
didn't go out of business because we got
an eviction notice at the end well this
time last month so it's been what a
month in a day so here we are four weeks
later four and a half weeks later and
we're already moved all our stuff is out
so so now any funds that are raised are
going to be going toward we've I've
hired a contractor and he's going to be
basically doing the renovations for us
and it's going to be we're taking
category five I mean it's an opportunity
that I had to I was forced to take but
now it's like okay let's do it right
let's not move into a box and just put
our desk in front of a plain wall again
so I've got a contractor is going to
come and do some work and and I think
that's going to be really really awesome
so that's what we're raising funds for
right now we've got 24 hours
if we are able to raise another 20 100
bucks then we're going to be getting a
360 camera so our virtual tour all that
kind of stuff can be filmed in virtual
reality so you guys be able to put on a
headset and kind of look around as we
give you the tour so so that would be
amazing I want to shoot when we shoot
Jeff with paintballs as well I think it
would be fun to shoot that in VR video
so you can watch that's gonna be that's
gonna be so much fun and I'm sorry Jeff
I don't know if you're listening but let
me say I'm sorry I am not sorry you know
what though I'm so thankful for him
I mean putting up with a lot and you
know bless his heart he's doing this to
support the show and it's just such an
incredible thing so and I don't think I
could take the pain stuff
well we haven't figured that if he can
either yet either we'll see what happens
we'll see I think we're gonna we're
gonna do the paintball and the pregnancy
simulation on two separate days oh you
went on same time
can you imagine well we're gonna shoot
him with 500 paintballs while he's
hooked up to a TENS machine well I'm
looking forward to April yeah can we
talk about Sasha's moveable should be in
the conference for that I think I heard
she was Toledo so I'm not sure what the
deal is there yeah I'm not really she'd
be the one to ask about that I mean I
don't want you to answer any questions
that I know the answer to but to be
honest vp9 that whole thing has been
like a shock for all of us right so we I
think we all kind of had a sense that
Sasha was going to be you know she went
to school to be a personal support care
worker and Ron and we really we knew
that
her father-in-law was in need of of that
kind of care so inevitably she was going
to be moving but what what the whole
pandemic thing did is it made it so that
okay we really need to get out there now
yeah but then they close down the
borders so all that I know is that okay
you know it's been a roller coaster ride
for everyone and them included but
learned that she's suddenly going to be
leaving right away but then learning
that she can't because duh can I can I
trouble you to turn off the vibration on
your phone just because that grabs the
camera every time such a cubicle with
Becca but maybe a good eye I would
expect so Peter so what we're going to
do and Peter's question is whether or
not Sascha is going to be returning to
us or if she's going to be permanently
out there caring for him and I I think
it's going to be a permanent situation
so what what we've done we don't have I
guess what you say an official plan of
attack just yet because again this all
has happened so quickly but what I have
done what I have done is I've gotten
Sasha Bluetooth headset exactly the same
as mine for when I do blogs so that she
has better sound quality when she's
filming on her phone we've also talked
about getting her a tripod for her phone
and she's talked with her husband and
they've decided that they will be able
to set up a bit of a small studio in
their home in Newfoundland so so the the
plan there is that even though she can't
physically be here with us it's gonna
change things and we all know they you
know things are going I think exactly
gotta do by Bill or you they die in
Canada yeah so the the thing is like we
all know things were going to change
with Studio a anyways we're already
looking at Rhys
rapturing how the show is going to be
and because we're making it better and
better right so we're already thinking
about how can we do things a little
differently a little more professionally
and this through a real monkey wrench
into that because now it's like helping
me now still include Sasha so we're
working on ways that from a remote
location through her phone
because her phone seems to work really
well for for this with the headset with
a tripod with maybe a backdrop behind
her we're gonna do something we're just
not sure exactly how it's going to be
stretched back just and ours how was her
intimate situation gonna be there that's
another that's another unsure right we
don't know yet so cuz it's pretty remote
so yeah so here's hoping they've they've
got something because I don't think our
ubiquity will reach that far stringing
fiber to Newfoundland and see what
happens I'm gonna put this spool in the
back of your truck I wanna go out as you
draw hold onto this end you just drive I
think it'd be more than 3000 meters
though just a little just a little yeah
yeah well I stayed up way too late last
night
oh yeah budding up on the on the pint
I'm the wearable are you still watch you
didn't get it yet so you're sitting
there cousin it hasn't arrived yet
mm-hmm yep yeah and it's very
interesting to see the eye it looks to
me like and I've sort of touched on this
before Robbie yeah it looks to me like
you'd load one image that has one
program in it it starts you can do this
with see your rust away or whatever you
want to to use I like see because I am
much more familiar with seed than I am
with C++ or rust so I'm I'm not going to
try rust I'm gonna just do it with C
it's the same
I did with the Arduino and I'm gonna
study up more on the actual hardware
that's included especially the display
because it's weird when you look at the
existing implementations that are out
there on github or gitlab its github it
seems like a lot of the developers have
taken the approach of of drawing or
rather displaying a graphical image on
the on the watch face and I don't
understand why they've done that I think
that you can drive the thing like a
regular graphics tablet you know like a
regular with vector graphics right I
would imagine that would be just a
little more efficient than then you know
taking a PNG converting it to a C header
with a bunch of Hick's numbers in it
letting that on the screen a bit slow
the vehicle you think the vector will be
slow nothing the big of these yeah but
trying to do the conversion once though
right so once once you've done the
conversion now you've got the header
file but it's fixed you can't change it
after that you can listen just play it
is it like a any animated sprite no it
is just a single PNG and you just splat
it up on the screen okay at least that's
how I see it
it looks go away in order to know what
time it is you have to reflash every one
minute well I think that well that's the
part that I'm still trying to figure out
I think that there are literally PNG
images of each of the arms of the watch
you know the larger and you literally
move it around the clock face right
that's apparently the way it works but
it's analog yeah
well it's a it's a graph yeah it's a
graphics object that you have to redraw
each time I just can't help thinking
that a victory implementation would
probably be faster you start with that
spider
you just go hit I can't wait I can't
wait to see what you come up with vp9
mm-hmm yeah well I've got more studying
to do yet more like unites now pretty
just listed a but don't tell about work
[Laughter]
they know they got a wrong way well what
was that I desperately be doctors
rejected many you have when you have
that when not greatly after language and
100 million on I keep great idea great
it differ between I are you go back
doing a classic tiny doctorate together
right now you do the time don't talk the
values above the box if by I to greater
unity fucking plug in the right you
press the button I think if you're
displayed for like enjoyed it
this may do it all Amazon is quite my
usual choice about three percent equity
on cover doctrines rejected two
capacitors and Scilab divides out which
would you have to keep certain object
but one bad thing if you catch that 89
no I'm not clear on what it's measuring
I'm gonna make a mistake it's a
measuring device of some sort that's
what it sounded like
so what what what can you hold the
device up for me again Peter I'm just
going to do quick Google search for it
yeah just hold it back a bit for me so I
can see the name it says Atlas LCR
capacitor
finally dr. oh ok resistance capacitance
that kind of thing yeah I need doctors
and adductors
oh right it says it's a passive
component analyzer yeah cool
automatically so it says vp9 it
automatically identifies and analyzes
almost all passive components inductors
capacitors resistors measures its
parameters using automatically selected
test frequencies so I guess yeah I mean
your Peter you must be really like way
way way ahead of me when it comes to
like creating circuits and things like
that like I'm just sorry I could
nominate you that gave me a profile of
God moved up there were people were
building trains at the moment friend of
mine you've got model train I'm good
it's got me roughly a colleague of mine
are you can forget the hip bones are
great you know back or do you think
especially capacitors way we want bigger
fried ones you know okay that the
component has to be outside of the
circuit for you to be able to test it
properly right you can't test the
component in the circuit can you like
one main go take one end up Connor
because otherwise the circuit would
impact your radio yeah yeah you will get
up again full trade a day with me I
though old meet or you know you get the
same effect yeah people forgetting
Capone make sugar bones are what they
are the good I have a joke about a junk
box and over the time the labels got off
so you forget what they are a day money
I've done some hardware work I am NOT
into building I discovered early on that
I'm much much more into the software
than I am that the hard way so but the
Arduino is you know and similar single
computers are sort of changed that a
little bit for me I still don't do
builds necessarily I'm quite happy to to
you know build the the Raspberry Pi hats
or the Arduino shields i'll solder those
puppies together no problem at all have
no worries with that but I certainly do
prefer to to do software so I painted it
available both but none better than that
time because writing in computing
basically when I was about to say no
it's a big painting I was 18 not to get
it you have everything a package called
Lazarus magical that language unknown
letters windows you said Pascal yeah
okay
I've not seen Lazarus but I am familiar
with turbo Pascal on CPM okay don't wear
and he's very good over the windows and
let you build Pascal programs yeah
handle limits yeah
Aero design program poet that works
added pages of antennas and things like
you go match up with different
configurations and thing three night
okay you have to budget didn't I have
done this some Pascal work but I prefer
say for a big beard world University I
did yeah I haven't done it for a long
time and I've gone abroad you look good
by that Robin well on linux the
compilers free so that's no problem
so in the libraries that let you do all
the work as I said I think yesterday I
may mention that I've built a program in
C that uses
etk for the graphical UI elements and
uses SQL Lite for the database and
that's been running for years I built
that I tried all kinds of different
graphic UI toolkit and I finally settled
on gtk that seemed to work really well
for me so there that that's that stuff
that the three that the three things
that I found tend to contribute to the
recipe of success for me you know when
I'm when I have to build something I
will typically default to see if I need
a database are typically default to
rescue a lie and if I need a UI a
graphical UI component and are typically
default to gtk the beauty of that is it
will compile and build on Windows just
as easily as as as it does on Linux and
it looks and works with the native tool
set it it made ladder to work on their
time windows as well very good
what's all the libraries do you have
with them what sort of libraries do you
get with with the Pascal compiler you
get that fix everything dealing with it
oh good money for a year day is a pre
pre job where you know he said no
license on it and I act like every six
or several months I think and you got an
dojo and my my my mates with in intro
she kids like you very much
position my brother's kid and JJ used it
and he did above all a degree on this as
well like I'm doing - doing it is quite
useful yeah but the other thing I want
to show you with a project doing
electronic shell you can put coupons on
the boat director map and they they did
OEM factory good thing and it does it
did throw a 1 exactly Oh phoo phoo
package on a spray
well it's called micro-cap well from
that phrase well I find that the actual
work they are wedding today
probably the got the ad reviled which
people can drop get off for me or Bobby
or Mia because it free anyway spoken
Charlie to you buggers job are going to
check up on the lead computer ok on a
lean-to computer working through wine
did you did you say it was called micro
CAD like a cap say I trade I take PP
about it one good will be ok but forgot
lovely the bugs don't wear yank micro di
play and well first link i clicked on
says it's a it's dead link so I'm
looking for it there's a micro cap
Wikipedia page maybe that would help me
find it began I say it's a bricklayer
says it's a digital analog circuit
simulator yeah yeah it looks like
they've gone out of business
oh well I don't go to the hallway if you
want to did loaded good you got the
lively still got the setup close go
there is a spectrum spectrum software
closed down and micro cap and micro cap
was released free to everyone well I
could give it a little money I love
being a well I see so what happened with
it is that it used to be a commercial
software but then when the company went
out of business they gave it away for
free
yeah I need very good and the pool would
editable things while they everything's
there the look up under there and then
they numbered as well get into that
there are companies feeder that you can
pay just a couple of bucks and send them
your drawings and they'll actually Cree
like they'll print the circuit boards
for you might be my knuckle ripped oh
boy I got meaning and no one hit yeah
yeah well I'm good on I can't do any
deeply she based up anymore because of
this you know and I got ripped off I was
a driver exactly in Jim's okay by a
colleague like you way they're looking
for as well please try and wonder I
wonder if it's less likely to get ripped
off now because there are so many
reputable companies that are like known
and respected and because the maker
community is so large nowadays you know
you can get in you need a like what's a
reputable circuit board printer company
and and you'll get uh they do that six
month ago was it yeah me see Wow
okay I'll do that in mind to be careful
I used companies like ash Park for rum
for printed circuit board printing and
it's worked really well I built some
what they call track we knows which you
use the Arduino as the base this is a
shield that goes on top that takes a GPS
module and the idea is that once the GPS
locks then that shield actually contains
a 2-meter transmitter that you can use
to transmit your position via APRs this
has ham radio stuff yeah
I love guided alright and that got big
abandonment outside on a chip taking
down the moment uh been that they fix up
by browsing the villa guy I think in I
think what we know do I mean by though
they on ham radio yeah I bet my my
dipole has come up come come out of the
tree so I need to do something about
hanging it back up
we heard the house had on health guys
they got got now bleep Reno is a long
wire the Wyndham which is a place to
land and he's a very long window unless
we have a free though it worked quite
well the only to get better nature if I
haven't done that in a while
yeah I get the dead to the bombing studs
about for coming up as a mom in a
waiting to get above about 70 makes and
then I will go back oh my god
is there no propagation at all or is it
a trouble oh wow it may flap a very long
time with that venneman men among men
among a minimun a bloody paper yeah all
right well hmm okay it normally cycles
over like four or five years has it not
been improving over time or no it didn't
improve it it don't it went up a zero
all the time and yep didn't rise above
anything really any of any good name
negative they met with an in good either
so you're not hearing any of the beacons
no no nothing oh wow okay to let you
know Robbie what happens in the ham
radio world is that there are beacons
that transmit on certain frequencies in
or in each of the ham radio band so that
you know they transmit all around the
world they're located all over the world
you can use those to judge what the
propagation is like from that location
and hopefully what it would be like
elsewhere but sounds like they have not
even though the conditions are not good
even to hear the beacons which is
unfortunate yes well I've got a baby on
a dyno
I've got a 100 and I wrote a flash GoPro
then that I can run it remote from any
computer anywhere in the world
no that's cool
no I was thinking about that just the
other day I thought wouldn't it be neat
to have a remote like I was thinking in
terms of a walkie-talkie right so that
like you guys could actually like go on
your computer and what would like to
send a signal to my walkie-talkie that
already happened what kind of it we can
already do that I am I think it's cold
or echo like here's another one where
what you do is if you can reach a
repeater that is echo link or IR LM
enabled you can send the DTMF tones too
and need to enable the link from your
repeater
to the one in Barrie Ontario or the one
in Ireland right that uses the Internet
to interlink the two repeaters and then
anything you hear on one repeater gets
retransmitted on the other and so you
can literally talk to each other over
the over the Internet yeah I used to
Ramage at one time out there but people
do go beauty and I have to shut it down
that's unfortunate
I may be setting up a private setting up
a private one would be a fun project
like well you have to be careful about
that because as the ham radio
regulations so you cannot send anything
encrypted over the airwaves it has to be
it has to be legibly it's gotta be open
but if the transmitter and receiver was
just like on a like a user band in Bury
say we're only like three people in all
of the city use walkie talkies I think
it's not not ham radio right you guys
are the enough trust thing I mean well
even even walkie-talkies a ham radio
reads sort I mean no no they definitely
yeah because it depends on what
frequency they they can talk on right so
if you're on the 2 meter or what what's
called 2 meter or 440 band 70 centimeter
band and
you know you're on the ham radio band
you need a license to do that but pretty
easy to get a license these days well
let's pick up that conversation again
tomorrow because I want to know more
okay thanks everybody for joining me for
the coffee break today I gotta get
married it's time nice to see everybody
and hope that you have a wonderful
afternoon
take care enjoyed it man thank you see
you later
