[Music]
good morning as I fantasize much this
might be a real short coffee break is
that yeah oh this is a coffee break oh I
I mistakenly thought it was a curry
break curry break hmm is that what
you're eating sorry so goes my day well
what am i eating
uh well it's it's butter chicken but my
my vegan wife made it using margarine
and cauliflower Oh instead of butter and
chicken so I joke this this is a
margarine cauliflower which doesn't have
the same ring as butter chicken but it
is delicious
well you probably want to take the intro
you probably want to do the intro Robbie
yeah you know I mean people know that
we're here for for my margarine and
cauliflower we nice little to play
melodies down the way yeah all right
well the formalities are that this is
the coffee break it's a little thing
that we do with our community and you're
welcome to join us just go to our
website category 5 TV the Zoom ID just
scroll down and right on the home page
and you'll find it just a little
something for our community to be able
to get together and it's obviously
pretty casual and it's just a chance for
us to hang out and think about other
thing because that's what we need to do
these days it is the 13th of May 2020 is
Wednesday that means it's show day and I
am rushing to get ready get out of here
because I'm nice this time I will try to
make it I'm not going to make any
promises did you know something will
happen but I will try to make it you
know because that's what I like to do
don't you know you know cause that ain't
that's what I do tell you what 18 I need
more hecklers oh I could oblige man I
can avoid 25,000 subscribers on YouTube
the list is never enough heckling oh
well well let me fix that for you
[Laughter]
well I read a little bit of sarcasm
uh-oh oh yeah real oh okay walking on
YouTube just no hey no more heckling
sorry what were you saying there hey
guys okay that goes above you today from
Joe go oh cool
these are things they came with it I
don't see your camera's not on Peter so
you're saying that these are what came
with it but stay there was talking about
stamps earlier old stamps no nice
colourful stamps on it and you have you
got any oh there you go mm-hmm yeah good
for good first stamp collector I used to
collect stamps but a long time ago I
don't know where a win I get a lot of
cool stamps when people send me stuff so
no ever get my oldest of batteries say
that battery they're a couple of WIPO
dire wolves Reed would sever voter
Germany and battery boy have audio
player for they was on the dryer I owed
you from China a 3,000 and Brad battery
of 3.7 votes
the problem was was by audio glasses -
why for now he's ever that bit of an
Arab all yelling aged over you have to
get your heart in it and I bought a
bigger one of the stories of the story
about my wife my wife built a talking
Scout to do a to make like something and
had new batteries in it she usually each
of like a book dinner the user after
about five minutes on the scouser needs
to flatten them so I pull through the
same thing and I plugged a volt battery
in New Hampshire and we never joke say
yet he's still going on there oh yeah
it came fully charged I guess those life
I was told a charge for a little while
but
now you gotta be careful with those
they're pretty volatile so lay out the
young they go there's ol batteries which
is each of them you know it just comes
to employ like such Maltese I think so I
prepared on and I get on their bad Roni
a friend of mine work for the government
in England easily serviced and they was
well if they was the major one table
that could be aimed oh it's go with him
and they jumped up woman she with a
charger Georgia iPhone that left here on
the bench all night and sunny in the
morning through the ambulances bar
brigade bomb squads a lot injuries were
laid she remembers a [ __ ] we facing and
that they through the air people Ramsey
Laura he was very brutal of probably
what they did to link the battery blew
up influence where they go when they ask
in the pain don't worry you said it was
a cadmium though so it was that no Livia
battery it was lithium okay that must
have been a pretty big battery to blow a
hole in the wall so needless to say it's
the whole project of DIY UPS is probably
not a good idea wouldn't wooden boxes
with a with a big with a couple of big
terminals on them is not amazing oh my
goodness so I haven't made any single
board computer cases out of paper lately
well I went to save my mind time I went
to see if my plane time had arrived it
has not arrived yet I'm a little worried
that it's lost in the mail so I may just
have to order another one and given my
street address this time I have a spare
if the second one arrives and okay so
blow up in case I blow up the first one
no no no you do the opportunity to blow
up the first one well sure oh yeah I
checked that I did a quick search in my
in my gmail and
because that was curious because you've
mentioned yours at JEP in doubt I did
get an email like a good month and a
week ago during the drill chip that's
why I'm worried like this as a chipped
munch as a chip but I haven't got it yet
so as I say you think I don't know what
I'm worried about is that a company like
DHL or something is trying to ship it
and they don't ship the P o box so I
don't know how they're going to get it -
minion - I'm a little worried about that
well it's a race like because mine
probably shipped around in the same time
we certainly ordered ours pretty close
together if I get mine and you still
haven't got yours within a week then I'd
be concerned concerned until then but it
was running from like Shenzhen or some
some place in China and it's on a boat
somewhere like it says that's why it was
good - yeah that's why it was good to
hear Peter say well I ordered something
from China but it took like three months
or five months or whatever it is so that
might we might be in the same boat we
are this is the the modern the modern
shipping from China is not really all
that reliable well you know you get what
you pay for right I mean yeah the ship
is only like 11 bucks yes he was about
what watches what the end of the coffee
break the ugy for the end to the coffee
break on their digital when was that
yesterday yesterday yesterday yeah I
like to remark that but the cartoon
others said that's always comply the end
of the oh yeah Looney Tunes yeah yeah I
saw that
oh boy if the quiet hit the quiet day
yeah I was gonna say it's gonna be it's
gonna be a real short coffee break at
this point but it was something there
was something I was gonna ask about I
think I disagree with the rebels I don't
know can I ask
Oh how often okay you figured it out go
ahead no no no ask you question but I
was gonna ask how and and this is for
everyone watching too
how often do you go to category 5 TV the
actual website a problem oh pretty
infrequently yeah probably the
interesting also probably well okay cool
so it's pretty immense re Robbie but I
don't visit it every day no no no I
understand that but what's interesting
about our model is like most of our
views come through like Roku boxes so
they're not actually going to that
minute thank you
yeah absolutely I do the same yeah I
think I've accommodate your bringing it
up on your TV right right and the
interesting thing too by the way Robbie
I don't know whether you ever looked at
the Roku at the roku channel at all
because whenever I try to tune in live
since you'd move to the new studio it's
very its stuttering it's not it's not a
smooth playback it used to be at the old
studio but it isn't now and that's what
I commented on this you know last week
or so is that I wonder what I broke is
that the kinome light label on your
yogurt can on your yogurt term know when
that be nothing looks like it looks like
the dough okay okay it's go okay it's
brought to you by our local transit
system apparently oh how nice the GO
train the website yes just showed up now
he's walking away to go make something
up yeah yeah exactly
um about the website and food
for everybody who is here I got a chance
last night to spend some time coding
which I think I don't get enough time to
do my own coding on the website but I
did some improvements to the site so now
there's some pretty cool features up at
the top
I added shop because I'm I'm going to
deprecated the old shopping system
because a commerce I don't like I don't
like using WordPress for any of our
stuff okay it's just too heavy but so
I've integrated it with the site so when
you click to shop now when you're
looking at a product you can actually
see all the videos that have to do with
that product or vice versa when you're
looking at a video you'll see the
product that was reviewed on that show
but there's also a feature button on the
menu and the feature button is going to
have like our DIY Nass unit the mikrotik
so when you click on mikrotik you'll get
all the videos that are just that
mikrotik series and if i if i show
something that you need to have in order
to do something to do with the series
then it will be available for purchase
there as well so i found a really any
way to do it I did that keyword search
as you suggested yesterday oh yeah yeah
right do it oh yeah wonderful
yeah it's great idea it's very good
so when but I'm guessing you manually
put those keywords in whenever you
upload the video right so that it can be
indexed on on the well I do but the AI
also goes through and anything that we
say is index seriously yeah you were
joking I thought you were joking
yesterday I thought you were pulling my
leg go to github.com slash cat 5 TV
slash cat 5 TV underscore caption and
you'll see the AIA output which is so
everything everything that we've ever
said is typed out now it's not perfectly
accurate I noticed I looked at I looked
at Roberts crypto corner this week what
the AI outputted and because he's got a
fairly thick accent it
had no like really like welcome to the
fuzzy corner at the beginning and I will
say get fuzzy from crypto I want to see
how it handles Slartibartfast alright
check tomorrow when it's run its cron
job I don't know if it will probably not
probably not very well-paid I can't even
handle your voice Peter and I'm I'm
smarter than most day eyes so so Robbie
I'm a question about yeah this came up
in my mind when we were when you tweeted
about your machine that failed in the
colocation center oh yeah clearly your
your colocation center is closed to you
in in berry somewhere yeah you don't
have to you don't have the same idea but
yeah yeah but how difficult was it for
and i dis and if you don't mind sharing
how expensive was it to set up a Colo
like that I'm trying I'm weighing up my
pros and cons to see what whether it's
worth it for me but I'm I don't publish
a lot so I'm not sure it's worth it for
me and I'm just curious to see how you
set it up you know how you found the
Colo center that sort of stuff can you
share I don't know yeah yeah so I called
a local internet service provider and
they have a server room basic Pro ok but
the server room is accessible from their
main office so anyone who liked to can
rent space in the server room so you get
you pay by how many you you use in the
rack okay so this is remember I
mentioned I had that three for you
server sitting in my in my garage oh
yeah this was a leftover from that
collocation so um so I had bought a
three or four use server and I paid I
think six hundred bucks a month to have
it in their rack so that gave me a
hundred
sit down on that server and I and it
would just ran and it was in a
climate-controlled room that I had
access to so then then several years
later somebody contacted me and offered
to donate colocation facility I have one
you at the colocation facility for free
so they they actually donate that to me
so it was a no-brainer
okay I'm gonna I'm going to turn off the
server that I'm paying $600 a month to
run sure and switch to the so I have one
U of space in the server rack so I'm
actually using this little what's called
a fit lit - it's like a single board
computer type device and but it so it
only uses one you have space in the rack
but unfortunately it has a lot of single
points of failure as well but reliable
yeah and and so that would be something
that would be something work so the
first question is that server the actual
machine and the big bad Internet are
there other references or anything
protecting you there or you expected to
harden your server yeah it's it's on its
own IP okay so it just passes through
their firewall it gets filtered from
things like DDoS and and like they have
attack mitigation on the on the network
but the server itself so in order to get
to the server goes through clouds layer
so clouds layer does all the DNS routing
and and takes care of attack mitigation
and and proxy and so when you're looking
at the site on that server you're not
actually looking at the site on that
server you're looking at what CloudFlare
is serving up through their cache
servers so so the the communication
between my server and the internet
happens between my server and cloud
player so so that's I thought I thought
we might have lost him he was like
holding very still so I don't know how
much of that is
you got but he'll watch it back I'm sure
cloud players is what does a lot of the
protection but then I have CSF lfd on
the server as well so if anyone passes
through the the CloudFlare service or
points to say my IP address directly
then I have an added level of protection
and I don't play any games it's like if
you if you try to log into SSH once you
are banned your IP address is blocked if
you do a port scan once you are blocked
so don't do those things he's back yeah
I gave you a very comprehensive answer
okay I appreciate that I will do that we
gave away some great prizes oh I told it
was our winner and yeah you know the one
time my Ethernet seems to be flaky is
during the coffee break
I don't know my fave and words that were
using it's possible it costs we're
routing it all through your home network
well I mean as well to work so you know
the be the connections pretty heavily
loaded at this point in time so no you
actually it zoom going through the VPN
no no no no no I don't put anything I
don't put anything personal through the
through the were creepy and no no no but
so remind me to about pine time I have a
question for it I've got some comment
about the point not pine time the pine
phone oh yeah yeah so remind me about
that okay hey bp9 reminder you wanted to
tell us something about the pie all
right okay so my question that well my
observation about the prime time
remember I was commenting that I was
looking for a way to be able to manage
contact without having to call up you
know email and calendar and yeah and tax
and all that in an overlooking the oiler
I was looking at building the you know a
service that the dialer could call of
expectant
- in order to well the feedback I got
back from beau and from the and from the
you know the news group that he follows
is that the evolution data server so I
thought well okay I'll just Manning that
yeah yes so I thought well I'll just
look at evolution and see if it'll hook
up to Michael Devon and count their
service and see what happens
then ten minutes they took down minutes
for me to install it and and and and
make it work yeah now I can manage
contacts and and and calendar without
bringing up email which you know I don't
always want to bring up the whole suite
right the whole thing it's weed so yeah
so yeah so I'm guessing the pine phone
probably will use evolution to manage
contacts and and calendar I don't know
that I'll go that far with email with it
or you know I don't have any problem
using it for email if it's IMAP I don't
want my email to always come down to the
Machine right say yeah that would be the
point
yeah at the core and also last thing
about it is the repair to my washing
machine I want to talk about that real
quick we don't pay them to bury him
either
yeah let's pay to go first
I got that you got commercial software
on yep yeah that's not that's not
interesting I'd rather talk about
washing my washing machine you ever is a
puzzle tiniest of my work Bobby at least
okay
- man who knows on what it go it's a
napping driver or not that's why in
phonology yeah yeah yeah yeah I know you
can't install a goon - on a technology
device later you you'd have to have like
QNAP you can install Linux on technology
has locked their devices down so that
you can't do third-party installation
yeah their firmware yeah if you don't
want to probably want so know what you
already run so are you sure to Sonoma
box beta are you sure yeah to go reading
on it I could read it okay okay the bed
and this is a bit of an actual nares or
is it a wrapper so how many drives can
you put in it okay okay yeah yeah it
runs it runs a flavor of Linux under the
covers but Robbie's right you can't you
can't put anything else I mean it did
don't know the job well maybe it does
not get so adorable okay yeah that's the
thing with those and we've had that
discussion in the past where it's like
yeah pretty tied down so you're tied
down to what they include with it and
and what their updates bring in because
you have to decide it that's the iko iko
iko what's the word you guys ruptured
because infants thank you yeah that you
want to be in like the Apple ecosystem
order and that was actually why I raised
you now that's why I say like you nap
you could you now to do some plug in USB
Drive into it and boot it and it will
allow you to install Debian or on it
which is pretty cool but you lose a lot
of the cool features too because they've
done a really good job of adding you
know I'm making their devices work
really well for from that peter if you
don't want your Synology box any more
room I'll give you an address you can
mail it to me
yeah I know of a phonology fanboy oh
okay oh I thought you were looking to
give it away I mean I'd be happy to
everyone well done it was worth a shot
right it was worth a shot okay real
quick Robbie before you shut us down
because in a minute you're gonna shut us
down I know it Adam Lily am yeah so that
washing machine repaired the perhaps
came in the mail it was probably the
simplest repair that I could have done
it took less than 30 it took less than
30 minutes and and it's it's all back up
and running it was fantastic this is why
I like to see you know what you saw it
in my last last time I talked about it
you saw the parts list and I could see
exactly how it all went together as soon
as you left they had yeah absolutely
and then for them when I have my when my
dryer has busted up I just get on
YouTube and I get there's so many either
general contractors and folks like that
that just do demonstrations on YouTube
and they're not even professional videos
it's just like he handed itself on to
his kid maybe it is filming while he
fixes it but he's explaining as he goes
and it really saw that this was not just
simple repair I didn't even need to look
at YouTube I could tell how it came
together and as soon as I took that cap
off the off the top I could see
everything you know including the busted
up disintegrate which is what I could
hear before I did the repair so yeah I'm
super happy with that super happy that
yourself - yeah didn't happen yeah let's
save me literally hundreds of dollars
for four because these days people are
in whim and right now man these days for
payment come out with it
they won't even come out to look at it
unless you paid them like two hundred
ninety yeah yeah
mm-hm okay identical to those if you'd
like you could say that by that necklace
for me what and then you can use that
money Peter to go buy a QNAP see what
goes around it decision so it's the
thrill of life yes right Edward yes sure
well guys I look forward to seeing you
tonight because it's Wednesday and
category 5 is gonna be on the air
Becca's going to be doing the news again
this week and I will be at the studio
I'm hoping I'll be in the actual studio
II will see how things go before the
show so get a lot of cabling to do but I
couldn't think most of the cable stuff
has arrived like it's it's gotten to me
now I've just got to get it out of the
boxes and run the cables and do
everything else and then connect
everything and hope that it works and
have you mad don't quit have you been in
touch with Sasha she doing okay in the
new location
yeah off and on I just kind of check in
and see how screwing and they're doing
well and it's gonna be setting up a
small studio space up in their attic so
I've yet to see that I've yet you know
the first thing that comes to mind is is
there adequate light that you know
that's what comes to my mind so I'm I'm
eager to see what she comes up with and
and and then we'll have our socially
different course sound the rhythm
yeah interesting interesting Susan you
guys will have a great afternoon and
we'll see you tonight about worries
take care see ya
