covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias an anonymous hacker leaked
around 2 terabytes worth of source code
related to the Nintendo Wii GameCube and
intend oh 64 designs this cache includes
very log code for the hardware
essentially the coded blueprints for the
various chips while a neat peek into the
inner workings of Nintendo and a rare
look at the low-level design of the
specialized chips that go into consoles
don't expect too much to come out of
this while in theory the very log code
could be used to turn chlochops
into Nintendo chip knock-offs the
equipment and expertise needed to do
that would be very expensive and not the
sort of thing a hobbyist could do and
any commercial efforts would no doubt be
torn to shreds by Nintendo lawyers the
leak also apparently won't be of any use
to the developers of emulators who can
only legally do what they do by reverse
engineering the developers of the
dolphin emulators say in response to the
leak we cannot use anything of any sort
from a leak in fact we can't even look
at it
dolphin is only legal because we are
cleanroom reverse engineering the
GameCube and Wii if we use anything from
a leak
dolphin is no longer legal and Nintendo
will shut us down that's not to say
there won't be a fly-by-night emulators
which include the lead code but we'd
advise serious caution when considering
and using any such tool as it is very
likely to include malware or backdoors
or malicious use
