[Music]
Google announced on Tuesday all of the
new capabilities is added to its voice
assistant including various additions to
the way it handles privacy one of these
systems new privacy features will allow
users to delete a record of the most
recent command by saying that wasn't for
you this means users can delete voice
recordings immediately if someone else
starts at the separate conversation in
the background or if the user decides
that what was said should not be shared
users can also ask are you saving my
audio data to learn more about their
privacy controls and to go directly to
the settings screen to change their
preferences as well as delete voice
assistant activity from a Google account
by saying things like quote delete
everything I said to you this week the
assistant has had a fair share of
privacy concerns with Google confirming
in August that third-party workers were
systematically listening systematically
listening and leaking private touch
conversations collected by the
assistants it had been revealed that
more than 1,000 files had been leaked
from these workers including recordings
so from instances where users
accidentally triggered Google's software
after the incident a Google paused all
of its language for a few operations
these new privacy features come not too
long after Google decided to revamp its
assistant privacy policy last year the
changes from last year included Google
making it default for the voice
assistant to not retain audio recordings
a once a request is fulfilled meaning
that users have to opt in to let Google
keep any voice recordings made by the
device it also added a feature that
allows users to review and delete past
historical audio recordings
besides the security enhancements other
additions to the assistant announced by
Google on Tuesday include the ability to
schedule certain
asks for example users that have a
Google home integrated washer or dryer
can schedule a load of laundry with the
assistant this feature is set to be
rolled out later this year
Google has added support for various new
smart device categories such as AC units
coffee makers vacuums and smart bathtubs
among others I would love for my device
to be able to make me good coffee oh and
bring it to me I would like to be able
to run a bath I don't know about the
bath thing and I don't know about the
anything with water bath and laundry
I think I'm against I think it would be
cool I know that my neighbor down the
street has one of the new like washer
and dryer in one machine yep right so if
you put a load of wash in but you know
that you're gonna be home from work at a
certain time is that stuff to be not
wrinkly just sitting there then you
could like turn one into your home scene
I'm the guy who has had pipes break and
had write things like that happened so
for me it's like I monitor things like I
check on the laundry while it's
happening right
while it's happening I don't run them
when I'm not home I super trust - yeah
my dad had it happen where the laundry
machine started spraying water all over
and they didn't know and it just
destroyed their basement so it's just
like yeah I'm not for that but make me a
coffee yeah that beer and bring it to me
what I find interesting about this story
is that it's good yeah the stories it's
Google and they're making changes toward
users being able to control their
privacy once again right but it's
interesting that Google kind of missed
the boat on this initially I feel like
Google has kind of always been ahead of
the game when it comes to that respect
for privacy because they've kind of been
the front-runner mm-hmm so the fact that
they're trying to play catch-up now and
the fact that there was audio breaches
where conversations were being shared
I'm
going Wow Google come on yeah but I mean
it's good to see that they're making
these changes you know but it's all of
us think everybody's learning right
including Google obviously listen this
is why I don't let anyone else do
anything and I do I'm terrible at
delegating yeah because I'm afraid of
someone making mistakes and so they've
hired a third party company or maybe
they had staff that was doing this job
and that staff leaked the information
yep yes that was meant to be internal
like we need to improve our product now
I have an Amazon device at home mm-hmm
ditto so these features like that wasn't
meant for you and stuff mm-hmm
are there equivalents on the Amazon
devices I'm seeing very similar kinds of
enhancements happening ok Amazon and you
know I've talked about it before but the
Amazon echo I have mine set in the app
to make a tone any time it hears it's
activity and so sometimes you'll hear me
if if it goes off here I just say cancel
so in the middle of a conversation
somebody says that the action word by
accident and I hear do delete and I say
cancel and it just now it comes
naturally so right and I wish sometimes
it will work in real life conversations
with humans I convinced our kids that
ours is now Ansel Gekko yes you can
change your what no because oh because
we chose echo yeah as the as the name Oh
but because you've got Gekko I convinced
my kids to call it Gekko nice oh my god
to change the name to get also the like
Gekko that's cool
