good afternoon and welcome to today's
coffee break everyone nice to have you
here I see Peter Lewis is there in the
top left and soul boo is getting his
coffee ready in the bottom left Peter
has asked me to just mention that he has
gone through throat cancer so he he has
a device that helps him to be able to
speak but we may have trouble
understanding him today so will if Peter
is willing to forgive me for my
inability to understand then we'll
certainly forgive your inability to to
make sense how's that hi Ron Ron is
joining us now as well and how's
everybody doing today I'm doing well
glad to hear it anything new in the
world that's not negative negative I
should clarify that these days you have
to clarify that what's new oh let me
tell you yes only happy things yeah I
was saying Ron I'm here in my staff
lunch room so just getting a quick break
for lunch so I get a half hour so that's
that's that's all we get ah fresh coffee
is on so I'm ready for my coffee break
oh no how can you have a coffee break
without a coffee yes yes I'll be right
back I hear you back there yeah yeah
yeah
oh well I hope everybody's doing well
things are pretty good on my end things
are coming together Peter was asking me
there just before we started our coffee
break how the the studio stuff is going
and without getting into too many
details here because of course I'm doing
the vlog and everything else on
Kickstarter but we do have a space
secured I've got a two year lease signed
and paid for and I've got insurance in
place so everything's pretty much come
together so we're just waiting for good
word that the painters have finished
their work because that's the one thing
that could hold us up and our move date
is Saturday and so far we've got a truck
the truck is apparently available for us
yeah so it all seems to be coming
together I've been putting a push just
not not to talk too much about our
Kickstarter campaign but hey if you want
to go to cat5 TV slash kick that's the
only adding in a place in here but I
should mention I've been putting a
little bit of an emphasis on some of the
corporate sponsorship stuff so there's
some pretty neat stuff like naming
rights that
yeah I've added things like naming
rights so that somebody you know that
can have their company name the studio
so that whenever we refer to it it's
it's their company name or whatever it
happens to be or it could be a good like
in memoriam or something like that so I
bp9 good morning morning good afternoon
where's your coffee my friend see solbor
now he's got this all figured out
because we've got our hose right behind
us so I missed up because I missed up
because I I just don't that don't tell
them at work but I just got back from
the grocery round oh dear okay do you
wash your hands then I did yes sir I
sure did I know good man
yeah it's I needed to get groceries but
I'm all stocked up with Australian food
anyway which is great so I got the my
mate in this room I did I got well
Vegemite I don't know about this man
white stuff okay but I got I got I got
the vision goal of mid you might so yeah
I'm all stocked up for the next two
weeks and which like I'm working from
home for a additional week so just as
welcome yeah I think I'm so good for the
next month at least and there are a few
things that I can create in there yeah I
could probably do that if I really went
you can deep in the pantry but as long
as the supermarket stocked with the
stuff that I like then oh oh
I'll eat that but if I have to I'll get
into the stuff that I don't like so much
that's been the dry stuff like you know
that dry pasture and all that that will
last for him I see Peters puppy there
yesterday was my puppy's turn to do a
cameo will probably show up at some
point yeah are you guys able to like a
are you able to work from home like are
you remoting into like a where solutely
I'm voted in right now yeah absolutely
very cool yeah such a cool such a cool
time for technology to really be put to
the test because being able to do even
things like this remotely doing zoo
meetings and stuff it's pretty much it's
amazing that you can just literally VPN
into work and you because your machine
becomes part of their network and it's
just like you were working from your
dish exactly and in fact I have
customers who have multiple monitors on
their desk at work and so we've had them
set up multiple monitors much like you
have their run so multiple monitors on
their desk at home and then we've set up
remote connection
for each monitor so when they're sitting
at home they actually can span all three
monitors on their desk even though like
it's a remote connection it's amazing
I've showed you two monitors but I have
every one on each corner and a computer
so I have a three computers here over
the one is just a server so cool
hi Bo yeah I think he's there he can see
us he's looking at ya there he's got
motion right so give him a wave hello
yes you'll see us all waving in the in
the recording well your I don't know
whether it's my video my connection or
work but you've gone you've gone still
Rabi have I okay okay so it must be my
end it must be just me but you can hear
me okay I can hear you okay yeah yeah
but I have no no we're back yep I think
what's interesting we're all starting to
see this where okay so we're all kind of
placed all around the world but there's
such a demand on the infrastructure for
things like zoom and all these kind of
remote meeting and telepresence
applications so not only are the
platforms being really taxed like zoom
but also the the actual infrastructure
of the internet because everybody's work
from home so we're just saying like your
remoted into your desktop computer at
work well where's that bandwidth coming
from so all of a sudden all you had was
a staff of 50 people all working from
home and that's 50 times the bandwidth
that they used to use yeah we're bound
to see some chocolates illegally in
Norway the situation is a little easier
because the few days after everyone
started to remote in there is Pierce
said that the data traffic is now as as
high as their normal evening
traffic is so they're handling it just
one oh that's good we had a few we had a
few mishaps when we first started to
work from home just the VPN connections
were spotty etc etc but a day or two the
network folks at work figured it out and
it's been pretty smooth since then yeah
that's great mm-hmm forcing us all to
reevaluate our our infrastructure yep
yep no how is how is everything going at
a marriage right word down to low staff
yeah yeah Michaels working from home
Daniel's here just for a few hours in
the morning and I tried to be here all
day the shippers come in no order volume
was pretty low right now probably
because of the low end product
availability because of Koba don't have
any exciting products to ship at the
moment you know if we had OTAs odigo
advances would be you know shipping like
gangbusters right now but also the h2s
are out of stock and let's see what else
yeah there's just a few things that are
that are missing from the shelves so
yeah well I had ordered a compute module
for the for the cluster board the pine
64 cluster board and I each other you
know like I just encourage people like
look at companies like a marriage Royd
that we all love and like just go on
their site support them it's got to be
tough like I'm in a services industry so
it's a little bit different because
we're still really busy and in fact I'm
doing a lot of remote support so but for
companies that are selling stuff like
I'd encourage you like go to America I
am sorry to make this into an ad for you
Bo but seriously we got it we got to
support companies like that because when
this is all done because this is all
going to end and we're all gonna we're
gonna look back on this and just
remember it as a terrible memory but we
want those companies to still be around
there's a saying that goes around that
might be featured now kill us will make
us stronger yes hopefully bill nice to
see you
hey hello hello bill sir that phone that
you showed off a couple of days ago when
you were last on is that one of the that
one of the Odroid phones or is that a
regular Android phone this is a pine
phone tell you a whole lot let's see
phone or subsidiaries
I will leave it's GSM okay and it works
on all the GSM frequency so if I were to
take it to Australia would it work it
works on on most frequencies again
Jarrah Linux moving on right now that's
nuts
I love it mm-hmm a really cool thing
about the Piney phone is that you know
as much as most phones can be it's got a
removable battery that's a standard
sampling j7 battery so you can get them
really easily even though this one's
branded or it's just a standard battery
this is the the module that does the
Wi-Fi Bluetooth and oh no what timing
Wi-Fi bluetooth ends what no I'm glad it
wasn't just me you dropped out there Bo
he said this is the Wi-Fi Bluetooth and
GSM so that's a it's a quick tail module
so this actually runs stripped-down
version of Linux on it so that's that's
the only mm-hmm
closed part of the entire phone is that
that module it is it just in here is
this like Mark Shuttleworth dream coming
to light you know in a lot of ways let's
see if I can get close enough here
canonically wanted to do the aboon to
phone right and this is this is a linear
our own folks so you can I don't know if
you can see it but these are our dip
switches right here so these nice yeah
those are our hardware disable switches
for different things this little white
label next to it tells you what they are
it's modem Wi-Fi Bluetooth microphone
rear camera front camera and headphone
that's what you can turn off do you sell
those at a Mira Troy we will be as soon
as they're available and this right here
is our pogo pins these are I squared C
interface to the phone oh no wow so
people can make a you know like keyboard
cases or extended batteries or anything
that does I squared C and this is like
how much is a is a pine phone remind me
both it'll be less than $200 and so here
here's Manjaro running so it's not
running Android it's running down Linux
it's really nice yeah let's see I'm
trying to do this backwards oh yes
anyway I'm not sure exactly what I'm
doing because you saw actually yeah I
want one even more now so right now the
Bluetooth touch is probably
most is the most
production-ready it's not production
ready yet but it's getting there
deep switches is there any hardware on
the phone that that you cannot turn off
except for you know that pretty much can
turn off everything you know that
anything that matters I guess you can't
turn off the screen and you know
physically you can push the soft switch
on the side you know a little like every
other phone has turn the screen off so
there there's the lock screen a lot of
progress he must be an app in that that
is running that just manages the phone
portion because for me it has to be able
to make and receive phone calls and keep
track of my calendar and keep track of
my contacts that's right yes all I need
there's a Linux program called Oh phone
oh and that's what I think most of them
are using to manage like the 80 commands
into the into the modem but yeah so
texting data phone calls phone calls are
harder than you'd think they're there
they're getting there you know they've
got call quality issues and you know
just like when you have on speakerphone
that you don't get the reverb and you
know all kinds of little little issues
like that just dealing with all the
different drivers to be fair to it is
just development right now right so it's
not like a public release yet so what
your holes are is like a dev unit right
this is called the Braveheart Edition so
this actually has a 16 gigabyte emmc in
it on the board you know it's not
removable like on the pine Book Pro
I rocked us before because of space
constraints but a really cool thing
about it is I use if you stick in a
microSD with an LS blue partition on it
it'll boot from the micro sd first Wow
let's say your EMM CDs you can still put
the phone from micro sd or if you want
to destroy a different OS out after you
have an OS on your emmc you can just put
it on the micro SD try it out if you
like it you can just
edie it over to the to the MS like that
I love that I'm loving that about the
pine Book Pro - but your phone watching
of you over to repair videos where he is
explaining to cemeteries and public
officials why it's important he
sometimes mentions lack of the diagrams
and schematics or anything like that
coming with the phone or it can be fully
open source isn't right yeah plus all of
the components are I should have left it
open but all the components are
replaceable on the phone so let's say
you crack your screen I think it's like
10 screws standard Phillips screws and
$20 and you have a new screen on this is
the future my friends oh yes please yes
please oh those are the this is the good
future yeah not the current future that
we are experiencing think about this
whole thing is that you're running Linux
not Android on this thing just to be
actually true yes it's a full arm
version of Linux Wow we've had people
that have actually compiled a full
desktop Linux not using a touch
interface on the phone
and so you know it's I think it's a 840
by 480 screen if I remember right so
it's not super high res but you can't
really tell me look at it I mean it
looks the quality of you know the pixels
are small and you can't really see them
even up close this one that would have I
on there's people we want the 4k screens
on their phone right yeah it does not
make sense to me either
what's the size of the screen bo can you
tell me it's about a six inch so so here
is my Samsung 10 Galaxy 10 okay it's the
Berenstain there there behind the same
I'm using my trusty wooden ruler to
compare my way to look at the screen on
my polka phone and it's about six inches
as well so it's going to be about the
same size yeah the thickness and
everything is almost identical to
Samsung Galaxy 10 home nice that's the
butter life on those phones well that's
all up to optimization of the operating
system because most operating system
Linux operating systems don't really go
into low-power mode when when you stop
using it for a minute the pine phone I
think on the balloon to touch right now
they're 10 hour battery life on it with
the modem turned on and light use so
they're they're working on extending
that by you know clocking down cores and
shutting off cores when the phone's not
being used and things like that I were
to mention the screen and the modem
would be or the radio would be the thing
that such most power right yeah I think
it's mainly the the radio and then also
the CPU if it's if it's not properly
optimized right okay oh sorry they seem
to have a pretty pretty well lick now
with the pine Book Pro how it like when
you when you idle it turns down the
throttling on the
on the CPU so that it only uses like 600
megahertz battery with a book pro it's
humongous
even if that I trouble it down it's
still unreal yes I'm is trying to
conquer phone it's mostly battery yeah
it does millet power and the phone I
think 2800 3000 I can't remember so
here's a here's a discussion question
for you guys with full Linux running out
of phone what would you do with your
Linux phone that you can't do with your
Android phone install the GIMP is it I
agree I would put I would put a society
on the I would use SSH for sure I do
have an SSH app on my android phone
but it's so it is that there it is
available but to have that natively like
your terminal on the phone I would when
I make a connection at the first time I
would configure it so that it only can
connect the I associate using and a kiss
so that is not working I already do that
I really do that anyway I have public
private key and they have to match her
otherwise he has to search won't connect
doesn't use password to do that for a
phone I'd have to have an external
keyboard whether I use the I squared C
or whether I use the Bluetooth Keith
yeah I already have a foldaway keyboard
think out of the box fold away keyboard
and it it it plugs I mean it being a
bluetooth keyboard it works directly
with them with most phones anyway be
interesting to see if it work with Linux
if we could find a way beau to get to
get Bill over there a pine phone then I
could I could port NEMS Linux to pine
phone because he's my better tester yeah
we've lot again you're back oh okay yeah
that's the only one I've got right now
is this one there is no high demand in
short supply but are you using that as a
daily driver but no not yet it's not
quite there it's getting closer probably
the most polished one I mean no one that
looks most like a phone that you'd
expect to pick up from a carrier is Lu
know us Lu any it's it's very slick the
interface you know the whole experience
is very slick but it's also very
incomplete right now you can't make
calls on it or anything like that
the would you touch I think is probably
gonna be the one that's going to get
released with it a really cool thing
about it is that pine is going to donate
ten dollars from each phone that they
sell to whichever OS they're shipping it
with at the time nice
oh no booty touch you know I'd say they
sell a thousand phones during the time
that they have you know during a month
let's say and who to touch is the or UV
ports is the one that's on there right
then they'll send ten thousand dollars
to do B ports for development purposes
nice and what oh yeah so the few things
that you can do with it that's pretty
cool I don't know if you've ever used
MOBA Eckstrom on Windows where you can
actually run X Windows app or X x11 apps
on your desktop on your computer desktop
so you can basically do that with the
pine pump
I don't Deacon because here at the house
I do Linux at the house this play right
right and I write and yeah so basically
you can run the phone off of your
desktop computer so while you have a
charge in your desk you can you can
still be using it as a phone
[Music]
sounds to me like you've you've got a
customer right over there absolutely oh
that's cool that's too cool yeah you can
use it for if your carrier doesn't
support tethering too bad no I figured
that how they had to get around that
anyway with Android so it's all good
yeah everything a web server on things
that reminds me of a YouTube video I saw
maybe two years ago there was someone
who man who installed the MINIX one I
think only 286 and he had telnet server
and a web server and he placed static
HTML files and Ave a file and he started
playing the wav file and putting so much
and then he loaded just a text and they
play back all the way for just but
that's the beauty of running a full
Linux over Android right with Linux you
have all kinds of flexibility in terms
of what you can do and what you can run
right yeah this is because richard storm
head of vida will be with a printer
driver that started this whole thing and
then later Linda Stahl also completed
the system with the coma I I just I'm
dreaming now of running bash scripts on
my phone well folks it's it's time for
us to wrap up our coffee break it's been
a good one this this I didn't even
happen the date it's the what is today
the 25th am i right I
these words money vests no rule we're
making it through making it through our
quarantine this coffee break is the
closest thing we came to on normal cat
for episode 5 that's what it is
we're just we're missing this the talk
of tech yeah well thanks thanks for
being here everybody make sure you check
out our Kickstarter cat 5 TV / kick
there are some really cool perks there
and I appreciate every one of you who
has already supported us in that getting
a little nervous because move day is
just a couple days away we'll see how
everything shapes up but I think
everything's going to go very well and I
trust that everyone's going to come
together so thank you everybody
nice to see you thank you
