something that is always on my mind is
nostalgia you know me I love retro
gaming I love things that remind me of
days gone by and technology gone by and
that's where overtype comes in this is a
website service that you can try out
absolutely free at unique code comm
slash typewriter let's get started I'm
just going to hit start here and check
out what we can do
ready to start typing oh I didn't quite
get there so just like an old typewriter
because I jammed up the keys I'm gonna
have to get over here and let's see if I
can fix that perfect oh you guys
remember when it was like this it
actually functions like a typewriter
gotta type slowly
you can save your work you can print it
whatever you want to do it really has
that genuine look to it and you can mess
with settings and it will actually
change the way that it functions I've
got the link for that below for you it's
just a little bit of fun but hey it's
also a lot of it's a great way to be
able to create very realistic looking
typewriter images because you can
screenshot that now or you can go file
print and use your your browser's
ability to export to a file and then you
can create cool things for like blog
headers or images for the featured image
maybe you want to post something on
Twitter and use an image to make it
stand out it gives you that really kind
of nostalgic look and it's it's
incidentally it kind of it scratches
that itch for nostalgia for me as well
again link is below check it out it's
called overtype and the address is a
little bit on the unique side so I've
got that link for you right down there
[Music]
