covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias canonical has published new
Ubuntu Linux kernel security updates for
all of its supported releases to patch
several vulnerabilities discovered
lately by various security researchers
affecting Linux four point one five four
point four and five point three kernels
and several versions of Ubuntu Linux the
new security patch fixes an issue found
in the Intel Wi-Fi driver a race
condition discovered in Linux kernels
virtual terminal implementation a flaw
discovered in the floppy driver and a
race condition in the block IO tracing
implementation all these issues could
allow a local attacker to either crash
the system or expose sensitive
information the new kernel update also
patches a stack buffer overflow
discovered in the v host net driver this
could allow a local attacker with the
ability to perform ioctl calls on dev v
host net to cause a denial of service
crashing the system that's just to name
a few of the critical security issues
that have been patched canonical urges
all users to update their installations
and install the new kernel versions as
soon as possible new kernel versions are
also available for raspberry pi devices
cloud environments om processors
Snapdragon processors as well as Amazon
Web Services Microsoft Azure cloud
Oracle cloud Google cloud platform and
Google container engine systems keep in
mind when updating a production system
that a system reboot is required for the
security issues to be corrected so it's
best to schedule a short downtime to
perform this update
