covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias lenovo has announced that
they're including Ubuntu as a pre-loaded
OS option or a number on a number of
their systems starting this summer
lenovo is already well represented
within the linux hardware community
having certified a swath of its devices
for various different distros over the
years and the company recently revealed
plans to sell laptops preloaded with
fedora and make more firmware updates
available through the vendor neutral
linux vendor firmware service but now
it's going even further with the Linux
love lenovo says all of its think
station and ThinkPad p-series laptops
will be available to buy with a wound -
LTS preloaded and not just a few
specific configurations stashed away on
a hard to find storage page somewhere
while the same devices can be bought
with Windows 10 or Red Hat Enterprise
Linux pre-installed it's still a major
win for Ubuntu and the wider Linux
community the company also says it will
upstream device drivers directly to the
Linux kernel to help maintain stability
and compatibility throughout the life of
the workstation of course it's easy
enough to buy a think pad running
Windows and install Ubuntu manually but
the official support means buyers can be
certain that all hardware works with
Ubuntu out of the box no drivers to hunt
down or config files to edit presumably
it also means some cost savings as well
since a Windows license need not be
included lenovo says ubuntu LTS benefits
from an extended five-year support cycle
providing increased user confidence and
system stability across the deployment
canonical the company behind a boon to
performed certification and regression
testing on these systems on an ongoing
basis to ensure that it remains as
stable as possible for any user
[Music]
