covering the week's top tech stores it's
like Linux bias the CEO of Cambridge
Qualcomm computing called honeywell's
efforts the best-kept secret in quantum
computing in a race where most of the
major players are vying for attention
Honeywell has quietly worked on its
efforts for the last few years and under
strict NDA it seems but early last month
the company announced a major
breakthrough that acclaims will allow it
to launch the world's most powerful
quantum computer this year
Honeywell has long built the kind of
complex control systems that power many
of the world's largest industrial sites
it's that kind of experience that has
now allowed it to build an advanced ion
trap at the core of its efforts
computers use bits to transfer
information the more bits the more data
that can be transferred think of the
leap from Super Nintendo at 16 bits to
the Nintendo 64 at 64 bits quantum
information is transferred in qubits
which have the same purpose as a
traditional computer bits but are
radically more powerful these qubits can
eventually form quantum gates which can
lean to quantum circuits that's the
measure Google was using Honeywell
however is measuring what IBM first
called quantum volume which looks at a
quantum machine more holistically taking
into account the number of qubits
connectivity and gate and measurement
errors the larger the quantum volume the
more complex problems you can solve says
dr. patty Lee chief scientist for
Honeywell IBM owns machines ibm's own
machines Havok we've achieved a quantum
volume of 32 honeywell's machines
achieves twice that currently Honeywell
has about 100 scientists engineers and
developers dedicated to its quantum
project original projections might have
seen honeywell's quantum computer
unveiled this summer we'll see how long
that shapes up in light of code
[Music]
