hey everybody great show planned for you
this week we have a external USB C 3.1
rev 2 which is a 10 gigabit per second
unit that has two m dot 2 devices
internally so that means raid 1 for your
external drive is that like a good
summary yes imagine an external hard
drive that actually in this chassis has
two hard drives and you're always saving
to both hard drive so if one fails you
can pull it out and replace it and
you're still up and going you don't lose
anything that's about the size of a
wallet about that size
yeah so we want redundancy we want to be
able to store our stuff safely this is
the way to do it we're gonna be showing
you how to basically assemble that
yourself using some kingston m2 s and
the device itself also i've got a neat
little thing that is going to daisy
chain into our power adapter for like a
Raspberry Pi or other single board
computer that's gonna tell us how many
amps it's actually using so as you're
trying to choose do I need a 2 amp or a
4 amp power supply for what I'm doing
this is going to answer that question
for you
stick around
Nalla GTV our live recordings are
trusted only to solve state drives by
Kingston Technology revive your computer
with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with Telestream wire cast and
nimble streamer tune in every week on
roku Kodi Plex and other HLS video
players for local show times visit
category 5 TV category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
gets here cat 5 TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show I'm Robby Ferguson I
am Sasha Rickman Dresden it is hot in
here our AC is down so just a heads up
if I'm slurring my words and and looking
a little bit on the like worn-out side
as the show goes on we're gonna be we're
gonna be experiencing that so hopefully
the AC will come up and going this
five-minute one hour show Posse
yeah you know what we're just at the end
that's the end of the show so girl
clothes dress I know you were prepared I
thought about wearing a dress tonight
but you know it didn't funny as we were
getting ready to come here you like
dress warm or dress for the weather or
dress dress light yes and I'm thinking I
don't have any dresses however I do yeah
well then I'm like Sasha's in a dress
she she listened hey listen I didn't
actually listen to be honest I was here
already when I got the message and you
know what's funny the AC is blood not to
rub it in but the ACA was blasting in my
house so I got cool and that's why I'm
literally wearing jeans oh oh sleep I
was cold at home and then I get here and
I'm like this was stupid so I have to be
prepared to catch Jeff tonight hey
before we get into the show tonight I
want to remind you make sure you
subscribe to us on YouTube where you can
catch all of our shenanigans click that
Bell to receive the notification
whenever we're live or when we post new
and exciting content as well which is
always always all the
time okay so my external storage drive
like my USB Drive that I plug into my
computer and copy files to write is a
single spinning hard drive in an
external chassis plugged into USB 3.0 so
it's pretty fast but I have this fear
that like if I ever dropped it one it's
a spinning Drive so you know it's not
gonna survive the drop two it's a single
spinning drive so if it didn't survive
the drop or if it crashed for some other
reason maybe a zap from you know
whatever the problem is that it's the
only there's no redundancy it's like the
drive right there's one single storage
device within that I feel like that's
the least like you I feel like this is
one of those cases where how did this
happen and that's where we're going with
this tonight Sascha so I have not one
but two Kingston SSD now 38 what are
these these are the the 960 gigabyte UV
500s that I picked off a pic you can
pick these up on Amazon they're MDOT two
drives now these are SATA so like
basically these are like the hard drives
of now that you would put into your
computer there's no spinning parts
there's nothing that is going to fail if
you drop it from a reasonable height and
and it's very much less susceptible to
something like shock or or just like lay
today well yeah it could be how many
times do I hear about somebody who's got
their drive plugged into the computer
they're copying their files over and the
dog knocks it off the desk will say the
dog that's what they tell us yeah but
you know that's dog ate the homework you
know that's exactly how it goes down so
why do I have to well I need redundancy
I want to be able to have like a raid
one scenario going on but how would I
possibly do that with m2s any ideas
keeping in mind I want to replace the
need for an external spinning hard drive
huh and so are you don't want it to be
via the USB three no Jeff come on USB
three is so yesterday I understand
that's are you using it for portability
so USB 3.1 Rev - aah screaming I know I
know
okay so let's show you I'm gonna jump
over to the unboxing table and show you
how this is gonna be done all right so
here they are folks we've got two
Kingston
MDOT twos again these are SATA drives
make sure you don't grab the envy Emmys
because it's not going to be compatible
with what we're doing and I've been
seeing these types of devices on Amazon
over the past little while and I thought
dude we have to take a look at these
just a nice little card to say have a
nice day please give us a rating and
we've got our instruction book which we
will refer to but as you can see it's
pretty straight forward nice and simple
stuff but let's get further into the box
okay screwdriver we have a lot of those
we've got some feet like non-slip and
feet we've got some screws and all that
kind of stuff and we've got a USB C
cable let's get into that there we go so
this is USB C again this is USB 3.1 Rev
- I kind of alluded to that what does
that mean it means that this external
chassis is going to provide a connection
to your computer at up to 10 gigabits
per second what does that mean well what
do we know about the SATA 3
specification it's 6 gigabits a second
so if you wanted an external unit that
was as fast as could possibly be well
consider that these cards here these m2
chips are six gigabits a second okay so
this device here is going to connect to
your computer at up to 10 gigabits a
second that's why the revision 2 is
important so am I going to get 10
gigabits a second no not not in a raid 1
scenario I'm gonna get 6 because these
devices are limited to 6 now I could set
these up in a raid 0 and then I'm gonna
get 10 gigabits a second for sure but in
the case of a raid 1 I'm going to get
the limitation of the SAT
boss witches is six gigabits a second so
I say that because revision two of the
USB 3.1 standard is important if you're
shopping for one of these types of
devices if you go with revision one it's
half the speed five gigabits a second so
then you're not going to be maximizing
the speed keep that in mind you want the
full speed of these devices that looks
like a football field with little yes do
you see that it absolutely is a
touchdown folks so we've got LEDs on the
front these LEDs are gonna show activity
as well as whether or not this is
important okay because what happens if
not two fails this is gonna show if an
m2 has failed
okay now maybe you mentioned is that a
metallic case or is it plastic it is
metallic okay this is a aluminum case
okay the black you may think it's
plastic and if you look at the photos on
Amazon this particular one it looks like
it might be plastic but no it is
aluminum and so that helps with the heat
dissipation to MDOT twos can get a
little warm this one should do pretty
well and it's got some vents in the
front now that said it doesn't have to
be this one I'm gonna link to this a
cat5 dot TV slash USB flash however I
also have link to a couple of other ones
that I recommend there which are going
to do about the same thing you just
choose the one that you like so if you
look here these are the m2 slots so we
actually have two m dot two slots up to
33 80 millimeter okay so you have to
make sure that the one that you buy so
the chassis that you buy is compatible
with the type of m2 that you buy so
these are thirty three eighty millimeter
chips that I got from these are the
Kingston SSDs now and they're gonna
basically fill this the 80 right there
you can get other sizes as well right
down to like ya 33 30 s or whatever they
happen to be I don't know what that size
is that's awfully small okay so let's
let's see if we can put this thing
together so this is what is incredible
about this is it's going to give us a
raid 1 architecture in the form factor
of our standard SS
our standard external SSD I should say I
feel the need to point out you have not
read the instructions I haven't read the
instructions yet Jeff have some trouble
with this how difficult is this though -
ok grab our MDOT - oh and I don't have a
box cutter with me if you read the
instructions maybe you would yeah Jeff
throw me a box cutter
you have one in front yeah I didn't read
the instructions I don't have one okay
oh here we go to be one I got one oh no
that look at that I could have pretended
that you brought it to me and save the
day yeah I just had to I just had to
look around that's all so you need a box
cutter and marsh man is like amen
brother
there we go so there's our first MDOT -
remember this is a SATA M - I've gone
with 960 megabytes which is about the
biggest that you're gonna find right now
and this is because it's SATA not nvme
it's gonna be compatible with this
device so I'm gonna just pop that in
there and put it down there now I can
grab the screw to fix that which i think
is the silver one you just say I think
well there's two silver ones and four
black ones so I expect that this two
silver ones are the two NV Emmys I'm
telling you the instructions here folks
if it doesn't work you're gonna see it
not work there you go
MDOT - number one I think we can add a
second one without reading the
instructions Jeff do you think this can
be done I feel like you're gonna do it
anyway just because you're the bald nerd
yeah you know what if it doesn't work
and I did it then there's something
wrong with the pro with the product set
the cherubs asking if you said megabytes
yes 960 gigabytes
did I say megabytes Harry you said
megabytes nice see I am stuck in the
past here folks this is the little tiny
gold thing to be able to a fix the m-dot
to which is in fact 960 gigabytes we're
talking a terabyte here folks
does that make a little more sense to
you in this 1999 oh wait it's 2019 as I
do this flux capacitors working there we
go okay so what has me so excited about
this Jeff sascha it's smaller than a
hard drive I'm gonna have to read the
manual
oh yeah oh because we have dip of
switches dip switches let's call them
dip switches shall we read the manual
Jeff
so what could these possibly mean
alright let's get in here now this makes
some good TV here folks raid settings
that those dip switches are for raid so
we have the capability of doing raid 0
raid 1
j-bot let's see if I can get a focus on
this for you see the dip switch settings
Wow Robbie hold still dude there you go
so those dip switches are actually going
to give me a raid out of my USB external
drive very cool
so raid 1 is what I want raid 1 is going
to be one is down two is up one is down
two is up this device is now set as a
raid 1 with to 960 gigabytes and I was
gonna say nvme SATA MDOT 2s and so those
are in all essences each one of these
chips is a hard drive so we have one two
hard drives if one of them fails with a
raid 1 what do we know it's going to be
mirrored to the other drive so if one
fails it's going to light up red on this
side here and then I just simply remove
that chip and replace it and it will
rebuild and I'll have all my data or I
can just operate off of the one chip as
I wait and it's still gonna have all the
data not gonna have any problems there
so then we're gonna put this right back
together like this a couple quick notes
on Amazon reviews somebody mentioned
that the PCB was not solidly affixed to
the case I'm not experiencing that
whatsoever there are itty-bitty screws
on the PCB I'm gonna let the camera
focus
you can see that the PCB is in fact
screwed into the chassis okay so we
don't have any issue with it flopping
around I wonder if maybe they didn't if
they didn't screw down their MDOT twos
and didn't do that correctly so let's
put this together just like that and
we've got four screws oh look at that
Jeff didn't even have to read the manual
for that I'm guessing the black screws
go like this well that one kind of makes
sense yes sir I still feel vindicated
Wow Robbie you've made it out something
after the three years that you've been
in tech you finally figured it out bald
nerd it's a slight under exaggeration
here we go that is good TV right there
it's funny as you're like just putting
in those screws I'm thinking how many
people are watching this just watching
you guys screw in screws yeah what is
this what is this junk YouTube please
comment below I know you're going to
there you have it folks so this is now
this one I've gone with the glow trends
so keep that in mind if you go to cap
five dot TV slash USB flash and you
really really like this design I like it
I do like that it has a little bit of a
grill at the front that's going to allow
some heat to get out a little bit better
it is aluminum it's got the LEDs for an
LED for each of the m2s it's going to
show me the status as well as indicate
data flow and then on the back I've got
a DC input so if I do need to supplement
the USBC I can I can put in an extra
five volts there and that's going to
help us out then we've got an on/off
switch which is kind of cool and USB 3.1
Rev 2 is going to give us up to 10
gigabits a second on this device of
course I'm gonna get six gigs because
I'm doing a raid one all right I'm gonna
jump back over here you want to hit that
button for me the wide shot there you go
so that's going to be this is not a
backup drive I want to be clear that hey
you don't use these kinds of things for
your your like corporate backup
necessarily but to have some redundancy
or something that you need to take on
the go
this is like your USB external
drive that now has redundancy built in
that is cool where can you find that
alright like normally you're gonna have
to go with something much larger form
factor this is something that I can take
anywhere and keep it in my laptop bag
run I could run a backup of my laptop
and now do I have one copy on here and
one copy on my laptop well technically I
have two copies on here because I've
gone with the raid one right you can do
a raid zero which is a stripe so with
the to one terabyte m2 s I would get
almost two terabytes of storage but then
if one drive fails I can potentially
lose the data off of the the failed
Drive yeah so I wanted this specifically
for redundancy that's my purpose not
capacity because I could for cheaper get
a spinning drive that has higher
capacity like an 8 terabyte USB external
right this is gonna cost me a little bit
more but I have that peace of mind of
the redundancy now what about corrupt
files you know say one of the drives you
do a backup and it happens to be
something that's got malware on it is it
gonna transfer data just yet yeah well I
mean that's bad practice right so sure
but that comes down to something
completely different that that's not
something that's saved by a raid fair
enough but they're not standalone drives
of that respect that is still run
through them you can run this as a j-bot
which is just a bunch of drives so it
would actually show on your computer as
to hard drives when you plug this in
right and if it's running as two hard
drives or p.m. mode you can then copy
things to the first one and then copy it
redundantly to the second there is
something like that you could set
yourself up with some kind of transfer
like that if you wanted to but as far as
like if if ransomware hit this where
this would help in that kind of a
situation let's say I have a lot of data
on my laptop and I don't currently have
a good backup solution maybe because
it's 500 gigs worth of data so that
could be really expensive to put into
the cloud so with this I've got about a
terabyte of redundant storage so there's
two copies within this device so I would
then copy it from my laptop to this
and then I would put this in a safety
deposit box sure so then if my laptop
ever got stolen my laptop ever got
encrypted this is an what what I call an
untouchable backup so this is something
that would never be plugged back into my
laptop unless I needed the data to be
recovered so what kind of files you
gather you put in a safety deposit box
well it's just an example of keeping it
off-site right so now me personally I
have the advantage of I have home I have
work I have the studio I have places
that I can store things that are safe
now the average home user probably
doesn't have the same scenario you have
to a safety deposit box as my example of
a safe place to put this waiver it's not
gonna get plugged into a computer it's
not going to get damaged and it's
untouchable by ransomware or some other
kind of malware so then if my computer
got hit then I go get that wherever it
is it could be mom and dad's house sure
yeah exactly
and and then that becomes my files it's
a really affordable solution like it's
gonna cost you a fair bit I mean you're
looking at I don't want to talk pricing
because it's different from area to area
wherever you are
but I'm talking you're buying the
chassis yeah which is a raid enclosure
it's USB 3.1 you revision B so it's the
current standard as far as 2019
standards go it takes to two disks and
you need to buy two disks for it so it's
like buying two hard drives plus a
chassis right so is it affordable yes
is it inexpensive is it cheap no it's
you you could definitely oh it's more
than piece of my stash ax so this this
is more than that for me but also for
for like the business user or somebody
who is pretty you know you're you're
pretty kind of you don't want to lose
your family photos right so copy them to
this there's two copies now and then put
it somewhere safe this is much better
much more reliable much safer than what
you're talking about like a cheap
consumer drive exactly and this is gonna
work a lot a lot better a lot faster
it's ten gigabits a second transfer
speed to the drives the drives can right
up to six gigabits a second so the
transfer speed of the bus is faster than
the actual drives are so think about
that
if you put one of these m2s in your
computer it would be the same speed as
connecting this externally right it's
amazing so so it is a good solution hmm
it's gonna cost you some money but it's
worth I think the money yes and and
certainly if you want redundancy that's
something that you need to consider
check it out cat 5 dot TV / USB flash to
learn more about the products that I use
tonight and there are a couple of other
options there that you can look at as
well and check it out let us know what
you decide on what you what you think
very cool we do have to take a really
quick break now when we come back I'm
going to be answering the question like
what power supply do I really need for
my single board computer be it a
Raspberry Pi or whatever it is because
we're always being told you need 2 amps
you need three it's evening 4 amps and
now you need like 15 amps for these
things and it's just all over the place
and so we've all got all these USB power
supplies which one is actually going to
provide enough power for your device I'm
going to show you a little secret stick
around
[Music]
welcome back everybody this is category
five technology TV now I'm gonna jump
back over I know like tonight we're
spending a lot of time on the unboxing
table I want to show you so many cool
things I can actually be over at that
table should we head over because what
I'm gonna show you tonight folks is this
little apparatus that is going to allow
me to measure USB power usage okay now
before I get into it I want to give you
a little bit of history now we all have
our raspberry PI's we have our Odroid
computers and all of our single board
devices and we're told that we need to
have certain power supplies and we're
not really sure which one we really need
do we need the one amp for the Raspberry
Pi or the two or the four or what do we
need and what are we actually drawing
when we connect say an external hard
drive to our device that's what we're
here to settle tonight so this device is
available at cat5 TV / USB tester I'm
going to show you this it is just a USB
power supply so you notice it's white
this is not a data cable this is a power
tester that goes in line I shouldn't say
power supply it is a power in line
coupler okay so we've got a full size
USB on this end and this end we've got a
USB output and USB micro it looks like
as well and we've got a button here very
very simple design very simple easy to
use I'm gonna peel this off and one of
the reviews on Amazon said hey I got a
used one it's all scratched up and
everything look at that looks like I got
the same thing but because I'm not silly
I can actually peel off I can use the
term silly come on don't forget to peel
off the layer it's here and the funny
thing about that comment that review
that gave it one at one-star because
apparently they got a used one the funny
thing is that first thing that I peeled
off says hey don't forget please peel
the mask before application they didn't
read the instruction didn't read the
instructions or thought that the label
itself warning about the mask was
actually the mask but no okay so no
scratches yeah it's actually like a
mirror finish beautiful so if I plug
this into a USB power supply so right
here I've just got my standard 2 amp USB
power supply and I'm gonna plug that in
and see what happens this thing is going
to power up and we see we are getting
five point five seven volts and we're
drawing zero amps easy-peasy right let's
plug a Raspberry Pi into that shall we
I'm going to disconnect the screen from
the Raspberry Pi and plug in just the
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ and is that going to
be upside down yes it is fantastic as it
boots here let's turn this over and
there we go okay so we've got five point
four one volts and we're drawing 0.4
amps but it's not even plugged 0.45 yes
it is oh just the screen isn't the
Raspberry Pi is booting right now gotcha
the Raspberry Pi on the back of this
screen is booting all that from the usb
yeah that's what I'm doing
see the Raspberry Pi okay so the
Raspberry Pi by itself is drawing 0.4
amps or so so presumably a one amp power
supply would be enough for the Raspberry
Pi 3 B+ looks like no that's just a boot
up sequence would it escalate if you put
it through say like a oh sure start
working that processor yeah heck yeah so
then you may need more than a 1 amp
maybe let's plug in the screen and see
what happens if we do that so remember
this is just an inline power like
coupler so I don't need to really do
anything with it there's nothing that I
need to setup you notice I didn't have
to install any drivers or anything crazy
like that this is also a bit of a view
or a review in a way of the ksb
seven-inch Raspberry Pi screen case that
we
couple weeks back so you didn't get to
see that booted up we didn't have time
to show it booted on the show but there
it is
like how cool is that this is a really
nice little screen it's got a little bit
of a shine to it you can see I'm
actually getting a mirror of the the
camera stand in front of me and it looks
really really good so I've got the
screen and the Raspberry Pi running what
does our tester tell us zero point eight
three amps is what we're using so that's
actually shut down I'm gonna actually
power this thing off which I'm gonna do
from the menu with my fingers and shut
down let's take this right from power up
but before I do let's see what kind of
power wasting the Raspberry Pi is doing
so the Raspberry Pi is off right now and
we are still drawing 0.06 amps so it
just goes to show that the PI watcher
for example is a good idea because it's
actually going to cut out that 0.06 amps
that you're still drawing so the
Raspberry Pi is still wasting
electricity even though it's not powered
on you wouldn't know that without this
device people say it but now I got proof
aha they call that the phantom load well
done Sasha ah I learned something today
okay so I'm gonna unplug this and plug
back in the entire unit and we're gonna
watch now you'll see that's that's not a
lie that was the Raspberry Pi now that
I've unplugged the PI I'm sitting at 0
amps even ok let's plug it all back in
and let's watch what happens as this
thing boots
0.10 14 1976 84 96 oh yeah I'm hitting
the one amp right there yep
94 88 huh so I'm definitely in need of I
would say a 2 amp for this device yes
cuz I'm right on that threshold of hit
there 1.05 1.16 Wow so I can see the
actual amp at usage and I can see what
the Raspberry Pi is currently using as I
do my thing
so that's going to work for any USB
powered device up tooth let's see I
think it's three amps if we look at this
oh my goodness no four amps pardon me
reading instructions twice at once I
know four amps it will do up to four
amps so you can test anything up to a
four amp unit you can get one a cat5 dot
TV / USB test or it's as simple as that
it's going to tell you all kinds of info
like the the voltage the current the
discharge capacity give it a try it's
cat five TV / USB tester and don't
forget this case is also on our site at
cat 5 TV / PI if you want to make your
Raspberry Pi look like that and and
operate like that with the KSP case and
that's all there is to it but I would
like to say thank you for reading the
instructions yeah you know I do that for
you I didn't even read them I glazed
over I absorb them through my nerdiness
I don't even have to use my above there
you go good it's how it works yes Sasha
yeah it is time to head over to the
newsroom it's like a hundred and ten
degrees at this point in the newsroom
that's right tropical here yes we have
hot news tonight it is a hot newscast
here folks
let's hope it doesn't become a hot mess
that's the plan so when you're ready
we'll head right over she's hydrating
first it's important folks remember
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom as if
we needed another reason not to trust
Kaspersky it was discovered that their
antivirus injected a unique ID that
allows sites to track users even in
incognito mode Ubuntu 19 point 10 will
offer it an experimental data fest file
system option there's a new attack
exploiting serious Bluetooth weakness
that is capable of intercepting
sensitive data and if this then that
warns against migrating nest devices to
Google accounts these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere this is the
category 5 dot TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories asleep Linux
bias I'm Sachi Rickman and here the top
stories were following this week as if
allowed sites to track users even in
incognito mode antivirus software is
something that can help people be safer
and more private on the internet but
it's protections I can cut both ways a
case in point for almost four years
AV products from Kaspersky Lab injected
a unique identifier into every website a
user visited making it possible for
sites to identify people even when using
incognito mode or even when they switch
to a different browser the identifier
was part of a blob of JavaScript
Kaspersky products injected into every
page a user visited the JavaScript was
designed to among other things present a
green icon that corresponds to safe
links returned in search results ronald
Eichenberg a reporter for a CT magazine
who broke the story found something
unsettling about the javascript injected
by the Kaspersky product installed on
his test computer a big long tag that
looked like a serial number he
investigated and found it was unique to
his machine and it was injected into
every single page he visited it didn't
matter if he used Chrome Firefox edge or
opera or whether he
on it incognito browsing dated the fire
acted as a unique identification number
that website operators could use to
track him burski stopped sending the
identifiers in June after ikan Berg
privately reported the behavior to the
a/v company the identifier was
introduced in 2015 that meant for close
to four years all consumer versions of
Kaspersky software for Windows including
the free version Kaspersky Internet
Security and Kaspersky total security
silently branded users with a unique ID
dear if well but that's the thing is
that they were providing a means for
attackers to track users they weren't
necessarily tracking the users they
could have been but they were injecting
a unique identifier into every website
that someone visited so if a malicious
party I figured that out yeah which I'm
sure they did we're not hearing about
that aspect we're hearing about it now
that it's been made public knowledge and
fixed four years later but I guarantee
you it was exploited I think the
intention was probably not malicious it
was just an oversight not that as a
programmer innocent as a programmer I
would say that that was an intern who
made a real bonehead move and is no
longer with the company that's like my
programmer standpoint is like that was a
bonehead move right stupid but companies
make those kinds of stupid decisions
sometimes it makes me wonder if there's
even the possibility somebody started to
put that in there as part of maybe an
analytics to be able to track how it
usage data sure all that kind of stuff
so that they can you know fix the
program and it goes wrong but it just
it's like come on
like to our people still using Kaspersky
unfortunately the unknown the the
unknowing public do tend to still use
whatever is presented to them
somebody please share this share it all
your friends yeah stop just that that
kind of programming mistake from a
security company is not acceptable no
that's okay so that's the thing because
it's a security company right so if it's
just the regular blunder from a regular
blunder from some other company but it's
a security company like you really I
mean we take for granted that these
products are out there to protect us but
should there not be an absolute
evaluation and auditing process for any
feature that's added to a security
product that could potentially exploit
the user right see and I guess this is
just kind of the tangent that my brain
goes off but I look at stuff like this
and I go if it was that easy for one
company to inject this ID yeah it opens
up the door to go how many other people
are gonna go oh that was easy to do
mm-hmm so I'm gonna do that yeah here's
like a free add-on for your computer
that gives you whatever well yeah I mean
you think of people who are like all the
government's tracking you literally all
they've got to do is Don lucky ever you
know everything about everybody yeah
guess who else is tracking you yeah
and that becomes personally identifiable
it's like it's like and I don't mean to
take up so much time Sasha but it is
like that the mall surveillance system
that they said was not personally
identifying people right but at the same
time as soon as you see oh yeah that's
Sasha rickman right there then as I see
the surveillance video that's going
through the mall I know what she's with
oh yeah even though I can't make out her
face you know I'm better than AI I can
see that Sasha rickman right so is it
personally identifiable oh no it's just
a UUID
well login to your Gmail yeah guess
where that UUID is injected now it's a
associated with your gmail account
it's associated with your email address
in your contact list it's associated
with your Facebook and your Twitter
profile exactly so but now they're not
doing it any longer which means that it
was probably in that way right right
they've hidden their tracks yeah but we
don't trust that's birthday at this
point yeah the damage is done people
should really just back away is there a
way to stop that kind of tracking though
like what I mean we've got all these you
know protections yeah it's like anti
virus malware all that kind of stuff is
there any way to create like a tracking
ID sweet that goes oh we found these
trends we're wiping that out like how do
you stop against that I mean the the
correct answer is tor like that's the
that's but you know is that legitimate
for the average user no it's not not
really and can that be exploited well
we've heard stories that yeah there are
ways that it has been exploited we'll
see right I don't know there's an easy
answer off the grid but that's just why
would you do that in there walking away
that's not an option to a 19-point ten
will offer an experimental ZFS file
system option the newly announced plan
which isn't set in stone is to include a
ZFS install option of in a boon to
nineteen point ten the next short-term
release do this October the downside is
that using Santa FS on Linux
distributions is a little tricky the
format is tangled up with all sorts of
licensing issues but those issues
haven't put canonical off canonical
states that they have quotes spent time
looking at the licensing which applies
to the Linux kernel and to ZFS and
concluded that we are acting within the
rights granted and in compliance with
the terms on both licenses end quote
feeling it's well worth its rights to
use the ZFS fully the company plowed
away on bringing up ZFS filesystem
support for boon to across the cloud
server and containers for several years
now it's coming to the desktop okay see
I can see it really working well on the
server why such a need to bring it to
the desktop I guess we gotta be you know
up and hop but guess doesn't ZFS require
but I this is a question maybe for our
community doesn't it require or doesn't
it suggest the need for like higher-end
hardware like ECC Ram and that kind of
stuff like is that not an issue and I
asked that it's like I don't really know
the answer to that so is it not a little
bit of a dangerous thing to be
presenting it to the end-users and their
they'll call it experimental right so
you know don't run this if if you don't
know what it is
but if you're running it on consumer
hardware that you bought at Walmart is
that a good idea why would somebody want
to be using it well because it has
certain advantages to the server and
that's where on the desktop like we're
talking like like redundant file storage
the ability to go back on file
versioning and things like that stuff
that ext3 ext4 is not that good at
because it's older right right so this
is a more streamlined futuristic file
system right but tricky for the common
person to use like the food yeah well to
deploy but if they if they ease the
deployment process make it a part of the
Installer well then it's not so much of
a big deal the foo sets at FS doesn't
need anything extra unless you actually
need that extra stuff so I think what
they're saying is you don't have to add
those features that are gonna be
problematic if you don't need them which
means the average user is probably not
gonna add them right it's not gonna be a
problem
if you were going to be adding them you
would know what you were adding and then
you would know yeah precisely yeah the
food goes on to say ZFS still validates
that what was sent to the disk actually
got there and that's important for sure
how does it handle like power outages
and things like that that's the you know
the there there are so many questions
about file systems that I don't know the
answers to because that's like hot like
really low-level stuff
and yeah the foo says he see see is
recommended but not necessary but that's
where I may be end-users like if I don't
know the answers and maybe the community
others know the answers maybe it's best
to stick with like ext4 for the desktop
or maybe butter FS at least stuff that's
like I don't know I put butter on my
breath I love butter on my bread and
butter on my filesystem I like it there
is a new attack exploiting Sirius
Bluetooth weakness that is capable of
intercepting sensitive data researchers
have demonstrated a serious weakness in
the Bluetooth wireless standard that
could allow hackers to intercept
keystrokes address books and other
sensitive data sent from billions of
devices dubbed key negotiation of
Bluetooth or Knob for short the attack
forces two or more devices to choose an
encryption key just a single byte in
length before establishing a Bluetooth
connection attackers within radio range
can then use commodity Hardware to
quickly crack the key from there
attackers can use the cracked key to
decrypt data passing between the devices
the type of types of data susceptible
could include keystrokes passing between
a wireless keyboard in the computer
address books uploaded from a phone to a
car dashboard or photographs exchanged
between phones knob doesn't require an
attacker to have any previously shared
secret material or to observe the
pairing process of the targeted devices
the exploit is invisible to Bluetooth
apps and the operating systems that they
run on making the attack almost
impossible to detect without being
highly without highly specialized
equipment knob also exploits a weakness
in the Bluetooth standard itself that
means in all likelihood that the
vulnerability affects just about every
device that's compliant with the
specification the researchers have
simulated the attack on 14 different
Bluetooth chips including those from
Broadcom apple and qualcomm and found
them all to be vulnerable
okay so track no longer trust your
wireless devices
I don't mind turning off my Bluetooth
rights I was gonna say I have my watch I
never turn my Bluetooth off yeah ever so
when I'm in a at a public coffeehouse
how do I know I can trust the
individuals that are nearby right how do
you know you can trust the coffee at
that coffee house how can you afford
coffee
well because it's it's a good coffee
house jack loyalty program
okay so Bluetooth they can just tap on
in to bluetooth but they couldn't like
tap into it and then go everywhere they
can just tap into the one thing well
presumably it's the communication data
so what is being sent to your to your
watch my steps chances are your location
my way yeah actually yep all that kind
of stuff a lot of those things don't
concern me but what about like email or
phone calls or sure well exactly
okay well that's wise yeah well done but
but not but but the the software itself
silts can still access that by turning
it on so it's it's still possible if
they can get to the phone
oh it's it's not wear handle it oh I see
yeah
and we live in a society where we are
plagued with phishing scams right now
right so the moment that a compromising
party can gain access to your contact
list right or information about you your
contacts or people that you interact
with then they can spoof that they can
use specialized hardware if they're good
to spoof an SMS sender and make it look
like it's coming from a family member
right and oh click on this link and it
takes you to a thing that installs
ransomware which is a real thing on
phones now and certainly on computers so
get a hold of your email address list
and things like that people are way too
trusting
because Ella came from it came from a
family member it came from a friend
I've said like what if you got an email
for me they said open this attachment I
would probably immediately might open it
if you really firmly believed it was for
me because the email has matched the
name matched even these days the
signature matches everything is it's a
very very clever I got an email a week
ago from somebody that I trust dearly
hmm and the subject line was check this
out yeah some were like yeah okay I open
it up it's just a link yeah oh and I'm
like yeah okay so I texted the person
I'm like yeah you've been hacked like
what are you talking about I just got
the seamless to check that s like no I
actually sent that I'm like first look
like a scam dude you really need to
improve your email looks like a scam tax
people links to things I always add a
like a description of what I'm right now
still sophisticated I got one yeah it's
like I don't know if you saw this is
happening you don't want it to happen I
did some research on it here's what you
need to know this is where I found the
research yeah and it was something
related to what the two of us are
involved in and I was like I almost
clicked and I'm going wait a minute
yeah this guy knows nothing about
technology yeah yeah there's no way you
would talk about this right so they get
a hold of your contact list through this
Bluetooth exploit as an example and now
they find out that oh you interact with
Robbie Ferguson okay grab one of the
emails from that Robbie Ferguson because
of the Bluetooth can actually give them
access to that as well and now they can
spoof my signature so it looks exactly
like it's coming from me spoof my email
address and send you a link that says
click here and signs it by Robbie to
make it look completely legit right so
what if it was flipped what would you do
if you got a message for me that's said
like oh my goodness Robbie I need your
help I don't know what I've done spend
money no and then there's a link yeah
that's how it's like me actually selling
something I would say would you click it
or would you call me and see whether or
not I sent it I would probably because
of my experience be able to determine
from
URL that you've sent whether or not it's
legit oh my god you would send that
through disk but that's me yeah but
there's not that's not always the case
so what I do in those cases when I'm not
entirely sure is iw get it and I watch
the headers and I see if yeah so I don't
open it in a browser I open an OL in it
Linux terminal that allows me to follow
the header flow so that I so that I can
see it was it actually giving me a file
oh this actually redirected and
redirected and redirected until finally
it gave me a javascript file and then I
opened that JavaScript file in a text
editor to see what it was actually doing
and I find so smart and I find eval
codes and so I decode the eval codes and
see the actual JavaScript that is being
run so what would I do
it's not average yeah well this is why
I'm asking you what yeah yeah he's like
14 seconds after I've done whatever I'm
not supposed to show feel like oh that
was probably the wrong choice so I think
we rather than what what would I do
let's let's think about what we wouldn't
do yeah so if you get an email this is
happening right now this is a yeah being
distributed an email from a colleague or
somebody that you know that looks like
it's legit it's got their signature it's
got their email address and everything
else but it's got a zip file attached to
it and the zip file is encrypted because
presumably it's private right this is oh
here's some private information so I
zipped it and I encrypted it the
password is blah blah blah blah blah one
thing nobody who has any brains to
encrypt something is going to send the
password in the same email as the
encrypted file okay so just think about
that for a second hold on backup whether
you think you know them or not that is a
that nobody's gonna do that if they have
the mindset to know that they need to
encrypt the file think about that for a
second
right if you okay so why would a
malicious party then encrypt a file and
create a zip file that is password
protected and then give you the the
password
because an anti-virus product be it on a
server your own computer cannot read
encrypted data okay so that's it file
coming in to your in-laws yeah that zip
file coming into your inbox it's
password protected and encrypted so
without the password it can't be opened
and therefore can't be scanned it will
scan the file but it won't find anything
wrong with it because it's just a bunch
of ones and zeros they can't read the
actual data right so then you open the
zip file
especially on Microsoft Windows open
that zip file enter the password that
was in the email so cleverly because
your friend is so security minded and
boom it comes up and you're infected
with ransomware and the whole network is
gone you've lost all the files for the
company and you feel pretty bad about
that I'm pretty sure so what do you do
okay so you get that email it's got a
password-protected zip file regardless
of whether you think you trust it or not
you call that person you say Sascha did
you just send me a password-protected
zip file what are you gonna say no no
what are you talking about yeah
delete okay I'm soft it's just doing
your due diligence I I wish there was a
way for email service companies to come
up with a hidden back button so when you
get those cut emails you hit them back
oh yeah there's this is spam this is
malware how come back exactly like it
like like they're Russian servers that
it's all tapped in together
oh it's been shut down already Jeff
Google accounts google says it's moving
nest devices over to a unified Google
ecosystem for the sake of simplicity but
simple can be complicated as is
certainly the case here in May after
users fought the decision the company
announced that it would maintain works
with nest connections for
some third-party integration if this
than that or IFFT applets for the
company's camera smoke detector and
thermostat are among those exceptions
that certainly bodes well for those
users who took the time to in great if
functionality however users who opted to
migrate a nest account to a Google one
will break their connections in the
process if said in a statement a quote
do not migrate your nest account to a
Google account migrating at your nest
account will cause if and other works
with nest integrations to be
disconnected this process is not
reversible further they warn users do
not disconnect nest from IFFT after
August 31st as you will not be able to
reconnect it this affects users that do
not migrate their nest accounts to a
Google one end quote
for its part google says that it's
looking to bring similar automation
functionality to nest that presently
requires third party integration from
services like if hmm couple of sides of
this I mean you want to jump on them and
say Google's trying to cut out the
little guy that was my first reaction
then I realize okay well there there
have been exploits on nest there have
been hacks on nest and so what's the
best way to protect nest users is to
control the ecosystem to stop the API
that allows third party integrations
that's a tough situation when you've
created something that that supports
that from the get-go see and my thought
was by you know removing that and kind
of bringing it back into the centralized
process what happens if there's a data
breach well presumably Google knows
about encryption by now right
you would right but how many times have
we seen big name home can you pump giant
October is coming that's right but how
many times have we seen big-name
companies go oops
right like yeah because I mean I could
never think that Mike yeah that that
Google has
okay yeah anybody now if one thing goes
wrong and it's linked back to Google
centralizing it and take taking the
third party out in the middleman out
then people are gonna go your problem
not ours
hmm yeah we'll have to maybe that's not
a big deal of them but so I guess what
it boils down to is the user like are
you using EFT and if you are for your
nest devices so that is your nest
thermostat I have a nest thermostat do
you use the if this than that I don't
use if this then that with nest however
I do use my Amazon echo see how I
stopped myself and you use that is that
an if this then that situation no the
echo is a third-party integration
however okay I would imagine unless it's
like a Google official skill mm-hmm
right I guess that's something that I'll
discover but I can understand why they'd
want to lock down their ecosystem in
such a way that they are in control
right but at the same time it really
hurts someone like EFT sure but and what
what we learned there in your story is
that now Google is saying they're going
to create their own EFT rights they buy
out the real EFT and give them a whole
whack of money oh that won't happen that
won't happen
no I'll just forgive them give them a
bunch of free money just to say thank
you for supporting the ecosystem maybe
do that yeah because people don't want
people don't want to have to switch to
Google shareholders don't want that
though no but come on play nice in this
World Wide Web
exactly if you're gonna be the big dog
play nice with the little guys that's
kind of I mean it would be nice what do
you think please comment below oh and
this is me I wanted you to take over but
no this is actually my turn to talk
about the coin gecko crypto report as of
August 21st 2019 now Bitcoin has dropped
a little bit but it's still doing quite
well at ten thousand eighty one dollars
and ninety seven
Fiat USD Facebook Libra is still not
trading litecoin is now litecoin is an
interesting case this week Oh
last week its skyrocketed we're like
almost doubled in its value in US
dollars not value that's why I don't
know I don't know why follow the trends
but it's cuz we covered in the news yeah
so so it went up so if you bought like
four four weeks ago you did really
really well last week and I hope you
sold because then it cut down again so
it actually Wow so is it lower than it
was two weeks ago last week it was at
188 thirty-seven doing quite well and
this week it lost one hundred and
fifteen dollars and thirteen cents it's
now down at seventy three dollars and
twenty four cents so I hope you bought
after last week's show Manero is staying
pretty static at eighty dollars and 23
cents Fiat up 134 from last week torque
or previously known as stellite it's
been it's been doing well
for a small coin sitting now at one
point oh one ten thousandth of a cent
whereas turtle coin is about half that
at 0.53 remember the cryptocurrency
market never closes it's always volatile
it's always changing and because it's
24/7 you never know like Jeff says well
what caused it to go up and what caused
it to come down you don't know you can
take a guess but it's not like it's not
like oil like you can't point it at one
particular thing and say that's what
caused it no it doesn't work that way
it's cryptocurrency it's madness so
anything you invest make sure you're
ready to lose it yes please
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of yours for submitting
stories test this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news it was a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category 5 TV newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman
and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm Jeff
Weston stick around folks we've got more
show for you segment see
coming right up welcome back
this is category five technology TV we
are sweating it it's good times here if
you're just tuning in he means the air
conditioner is broken speaking of hot
shows we went to we've bumped into each
other at a concert it was a very special
concert because we were celebrating the
20th anniversary of our previous
employee actually how you and I met
that's right and you know who else I ran
into there was Christie Burton yes
caller
yeah it's Christie Van Norton now
because he married our camera guy John
so I didn't know that yeah so John
Christie were there and you were there
with your wife yeah and we had a great
time but it was to celebrate like 20
years radio station where we met but it
was totally by fluke like we walked in
like oh the reserve section for the
former staff is over here so my god I
call psycho sat down and I'm you're
behind us well yeah we're behind it I'm
taking pictures in the back of my bald
head I'm like that looks like the back
of Robbie's head that's what is that
solid white or but that's right but it
was a good show it was nice to reminisce
and see yeah well that I haven't not
seen in 15 years
Oh easy yeah and they had a show up at
the front for a they had like a museum
set up I guess it was like a Historical
Museum did you see that no oh really oh
you missed it oh that's a shame Jeff so
they had a museum set up and they
actually so they had pictures from
throughout the years so I worked there
20 years ago and worked there for
several years so some of the photos went
back to when I was just oh I started 20
years ago easy yeah so so it was pretty
neat to see these photos and and there
was a newspaper clipping you've
mentioned on the show the time that you
were
King you spent the night in the mall oh
yeah I was living in the mall for a week
it was in support of for the food bank
yeah well I think it was 10,000 pounds
of food yeah and I wasn't leaving them
all until we got the food
yeah and I think it was Thursday
mid-afternoon we got and I'm like so
sorry I'm that's the way the promo went
he got to go home it after closed I left
the mall after midnight and I had to be
back before these seniors walk at 6
o'clock there you go yeah he got four
hours of sleep and it was interesting
because so I snapped a picture of that
article because that was like a real
great memory my involvement with that
because that was after I left the radio
station as a as an on-air DJ right but
my involvement was they needed an IT guy
yeah because there was no internet at
the mall and Jeff had to be able to like
broadcast from the mall which is all
done through internet connectivity and
he had to be able to look up his
research and all the information they
and email and everything else so I was
hired to come in and run all the cables
through the roof and install the routers
and everything else so that was me and
my wife I was doing that for you yeah I
was a lot of fun I really did enjoy that
the that event and back then 15 years
ago I'm proud of that but just radio in
general I mean like oh yeah it was just
it was a blast and that's the one thing
I loved about the Contras I'm sitting
there going yeah this was a really fun
job like it really really was a fun job
hey no but it was a fun that's why we
all laughed well right.we but we made
friends along the way right and here we
are doing TV making just as much money
we've got our full-time work on the side
keeping us going but this is now
something you know it's something that
we're passionate about and it was really
neat to see people that we haven't seen
in so many years and as I say Christie
Burton and John van nert you remember
them from the show Christie was our news
anchor for several years and then ja and
John at that time became our camera guy
mm-hmm then they hooked up got married
and moved away
and so yeah I'm not bitter no but it was
really really nice to see them well it's
good you know what I particularly
enjoyed what's that uh that I could
recognize everybody from years gone by
but very few recognized me oh yeah
because of the beard oh it changed
everything there was a bunch of like
when when they announced you know the
former staff and I stood up one of the
guys is like I was looking around going
nope that's not him
oh that's him oh beard for the win yes I
had people recognize me I don't know if
people didn't recognize me because they
wouldn't have told me that yeah hey I
don't know you but I did have people
come up and say they knew me they
recognized my wife and I because we did
we had a band they actually recognized
her
now I'm from soul class soul cleanse
calm if you want to see Robbie back when
he was 18 years old doing rap plastic
stuff with like three number-one hits on
the radio like it was the real deal the
radio no no separate I play not coveted
Awards as well I did it yeah we plan
awards we were you not a nominee or did
you win they didn't have a rap category
those back then that's right yeah but we
performed at the Covenant Awards in
Ottawa yeah we traveled to London and it
shows yeah I was pretty neat so people
recognize me from that which was kind of
neat didn't recognize me at first
recognized Becca because she hasn't
changed a bit right yeah and me yeah so
but that was neat and it was neat to see
everybody for sure yeah that was a lot I
think I was on one of those songs was I
not you were we break his heart again
that's crying the album keeping her was
it keeping it real uh well I think it
was from keeping or remember recording
that in your spare bedroom yeah back at
the old house we have we didn't have
kids back then house so the spare
bedroom was actually set up as a
recording studio so fine right yeah do
you miss those days not that I want to
repeat them but I do miss them yeah oh
yeah just like I've learned all this
weird new stuff yeah
yeah anyway reminiscing yeah reminiscing
with people you don't know that's that's
it that's what we've been up to the best
part of that concert that was the fire
alarm it constantly went off and it
reminded me of the soul cleanse days
because we were always we're always
setting off the fire alarms every venue
it was like you were at a rave or
something because there in the like the
bands playing there in the middle of
this rockin song the guys rapping away
and all sudden it's the smoke machines
that's right like suddenly there's
lights flashing everywhere you get the
alarm going off totally off beep yeah it
was it was so much fun the band was so
pro though like this is a like a what do
you call it vivo band like a big-name
band anyways yeah yeah yeah yeah
Kentucky so if you're from Kentucky
that's where the band was from death I
loved how the one guy had black overalls
and camel crocks yeah yeah that's cool
cleanse calm just yeah that's right okay
just like it sounds all right we had
radio so if you enjoy our show please
stand with us and pitch in as little or
as much as you can through patreon every
person who becomes a patron helps us
grow and gets access to some pretty neat
perks sign up today at patreon.com slash
category-five don't forget to you can
subscribe to us on YouTube we're
category 5 technology TV but also Linux
tech show com will take you to our
secondary channel which is edited down
little snippets and that is a great way
to watch the show as well make sure you
subscribe and click the bell on both of
those YouTube channels so that you get
not only the snippets but also the live
broadcast and everything else that we
post
we're also on roku and cody you can find
out more through our website category 5
TV hey a real quick way is to scroll
right to the bottom and click on
subscribe
there's our SS feeds there's like google
podcasts everything else you'll find
that a category-5 TV that's all the time
that we have everybody have a great week
we'll see you next time
[Applause]
