welcome to today's coffee break
nothing's gonna stop us
pandemic whatever having to move we got
this is socially distant from us for me
he's in the studio I'm in the office and
I was joking that were socially distant
but realistically because he's using his
phone and I'm using mine we're getting
severe feedback so that's that's you
watch nothing around you panorama yeah
sure okay so I am in actually the
broadcast area of Studio East so we're
Robbie's and showing up from is from the
production studio but this is actually
the studio for where we're going to be
broadcasting so behind me is the blue
wall and right now the idea is that is
where when category-five cuts off will
be and then we're gonna have I believe
the unboxing table you said is over here
and that's right and then we're gonna be
having like green screening standing
studio over here and over here is back
end well there's that and this is the
wonderful natural lighting that we're
getting in studio II so that as we
broadcast from here we'll get a nice
glow coming off Romney's head so we can
save energy on those money and I'm here
in the production studio so this is
where all the wires are going to come to
you can see the server rack fits very
nicely in the alcove so there's our
server rack I'm gonna put some LEDs in
there to make it look nice my desk is
obviously ready to go set up and I'll
just put my computer on that there we go
so we'll get this all worked out
Anthony's here putting in the motion
sensors and everything else say hi
Anthony strangely didn't want to convey
didn't want a coffee for a coffee break
so Cheers looking
hey Jeff one of the things that has been
noted so far about the studio I'm going
to just kind of creep over here for just
a second
watch this here we go there we go
I can just go like that just for a
moment cuz I'm gonna go see Jeff I just
want right there so I just pointed at
that little bubble in the wall Jeff can
you see it on my camera a little bit
yeah
so how tall would you think that is I
guessed from video probably about 8 feet
7 feet yeah that's about 7 and when
you're sitting how how high is that
compared to you so here I'll bring my
camera around I am not touching the
bubble you know that's about 7 feet okay
okay so yeah we may see it a little bit
maybe we just find a nice drape to cover
that or something I don't think it's
really all that major I don't think so
hmm
we'll see it's not something I noticed
before but it was pointed out right on
on Kickstarter yeah so did everybody
know it's just it looks like it's just
us here I saw Peter Peters here hey
buddy I wonder if because today is move
day I wonder if people thought that we
we weren't gonna do a coffee break
well it could be but I mean Soul Boo is
in here Oh easy I don't see him on my
phone I'm gonna try to figure out oh
there's a participant's button Oh bills
here and soul boos here nice hey guys
or just being shy okay yeah we like
because I don't have a computer I can't
see anybody other than the person who's
speaking so so unless you make a noise I
won't even know you're here okay Bobo do
you have an electronic drum kit set up
just beside the kitchen yes I do
it's yo MALDI TX something I just okay
so I have always had two drumsticks in
the church I went to the thirty years
ago the pastor was and he played the
drums doing service so he gave me two
drumsticks for some reason nice and I
still have them so I've been all these
years I've been playing ear drums so how
to do it yeah it's a great feeling
having something that a little bit yes
actually it's it's funny I mean dude on
the whole air drum thing I totally get
that I'm an air drum and myself but I'm
also a finger tapper and my - you know
pointer fingers have become a drumsticks
so much so that they actually curved out
now and they start to twist so it's like
I've done all this damage to my fingers
from all years of finger drumming
okay good check on the truck oh my
goodness look at you go
Wi-Fi reaches that far hey guys I don't
think the Wi-Fi reaches how's it go
though good how you doing
got a lot of buffering wrong got some
you're frozen there you go oh there we
go
what that wasn't yeah I was connected
but I had I had to disconnect my camera
for a little while because I was
flashing a micro SD card now i just read
plug the camera in so i'm here i need i
need a USB hub that's what I need yeah
so what do you guys think of Studio B so
far it's looking good
[Music]
Bobby you guys I watched that video the
Kickstarter video and I saw that wall
defect as it worked
yeah I think if you just pay attention
to the lighting you won't even notice it
and also like there's there's usually
stuff that we put behind us I don't
think we're gonna use the same shelving
that we used before but I'm gonna I'm
going to have the set designer kind of
come up with some ideas on what they can
do so I don't know what what that is
going to be it could be like some kind
of fancy lighting it's also quite
off-center like it's it's far over to
the left side of the walls or I guess
you know yeah stage left so it may not
even show up on camera depending on
where we're standing I mean yeah drew
whenever you think about where we filmed
in studio D the camera was maybe only a
couple of inches focused above my head
and I mean that's that spawn it's not
seven feet so I don't think you're gonna
see yeah I don't think so and yeah and
you may not either
yeah I think the other thing to remember
too in studio he is that we're gonna be
seated instead of standing oh it
definitely won't show yeah standing you
you only went up about six and a half
feet so it's probably would probably be
just that arranged we're just sitting
there
the contractors gonna be building a
stage for us so see where Jeff is okay
so it's gonna be a little elevation and
that's gonna give us something that we
can feed all the wires under bill you
remember how hard it is to hire the
stage and it can just come up where we
need it I like I like a raised floor
yeah just slightly raised yeah it's
so it's an old building that we're in
and so the floors are a little bit
uneven Jeff you can probably see that
it's not it's not like terrible it's not
uncomfortable but your desk might kind
of look back and forth a little bit so
putting the stage and is also going to
give us some more level strike well
meeting you're eating heating yes
absolutely
eating an air conditioning that's
something I'm really looking forward to
with having a professional landlord is
like a landlord that is that's what they
do it's gonna make a big difference for
us
I like your t-shirt Roku sitting there
today yeah very timely isn't it well I
don't know if you guys are planning on
necessarily planning and if you got a
check that the videos we've been doing
from today because we had some special
guests hanging out in studio today
studio de while we were packing up and
Anthony is just warning me here guys
what oh dear Anthony what are you doing
here we go I heard a click case maybe
that silent alarm is deafening
I was expecting my sirens and blaring
all little beep like you open the door
and then to me is there the SWAT team
will be he's doing all the programming
and everything I don't want to like put
him on camera cuz he's probably punching
in like secret passwords and stuff so
you guys see how big this alcove really
is yeah
there's our server rack and look at how
high it is it's ridiculous
you need a bigger rack more stuff to put
on it right here you go yeah umm what's
cool about like see doesn't that show
you held my camera really makes things
look smaller so if you consider that how
small that little I look and then think
about how small the studio space looks
because people are saying oh it looks a
lot smaller well I think my phone does
that weird eh yeah normally this camera
we're supposed to add 10 pounds in this
case it takes off 30 square feet that's
my this is my 5 foot server rack you
guys know how wide a server rack is and
it's like it's got a foot on either side
it reminds me over a comment that I saw
I think I mentioned this week back on
the very last video that Lewis rossmann
did on his old store it was all cleaned
out it was just empty
yeah the commentary said they in
response to the video on the empty store
that only priya said that he couldn't
believe that it looked smaller with
nothing in it than it ever did it all
the crap in it yeah does work that way
sometimes
so maybe the studio will look bigger
when you start feeling it this stuff
yeah I wonder if need to get more
shelves on that rack Ravi so you can put
your name servers on it I've got one set
of rails so our main server goes on
those rails and I thought I could
strategically there's the rack has these
little lips see those yeah and that
gives it a little bit of extra stability
the rack itself but because it has a lip
I could just put a like a piece of
plywood on it even for just a cheap and
cheerful solution but you can buy like
silver rack shelves for like 50 bucks
hmm be cool be nice for you to have
their server is not going to be nice no
server noise no fan spinning oh could be
absolutely silent I heard a train go by
the other night when I was here and I
just like I'm trying to picture where a
train track is so I don't I don't know
if that would ever happen during the
show but I don't think it would pick it
up but it's only for a moment I remember
when I worked in a local radio station
in there 93 next door they were pushing
down maybe 10 meters long they were
doing some digging and they were flying
down some metal bars to keep keep the
dirt away and then we had to walk out
and
ask them nicely if they are during two
hours it's a if they couldn't take a
break but there was the deafening of all
our microphones I don't see railroad
tracks on this map that's why it was so
weird I'm like where's that coming from
I can't think of any nearby I mean
there's the Allendale train station but
that's pretty far off yeah there is some
train tracks I don't think they're in
use but they run right along
I think it's Tiffin Street which is not
far from here II like I used to live on
Patterson actually yeah they are used
because I used to live on Patterson and
for England right by our house they're
rarely used though they're not very
heavily trafficked no I think we had a
train go by once every three months yeah
that's what it was you know
Istanbul of course our secret
governmental facility is not marked on
any map
well this cool the the studio II is
right beside the high school that I went
to except they tour the high school down
it doesn't exist anymore
so now it's just this big field so it
was weird driving in and looking over to
see you know where I graduated and it's
all gone yeah kind of it's kind of weird
being back in this area yeah I did the
same last summer when I visited there my
place the old school building is torn
down and they have built a new one and
almost all of the other supporting a
buildings are not there so it's of the
big empty space it's it's weird time
moves forward in the that won't happen
in New York they're gonna let those
buildings fall down and I draw that way
with it as well the government did have
a term what people do and I got my own
and their time to pull this up their old
stuff I've been digging a little around
yes Wow Masek is that weird five
megabyte for four megabyte yeah because
it was in used up until them two or
three years ago
and ethical install on destroy this
Mandrake 2006 still works so it must be
gigabyte and four gigabyte yeah okay so
it's a little newer than I was thinking
that's out of a comic I have no idea
no I don't still operate the big ones
bill when you commanded people things
went
I don't go that far back
and I found the second the second the
disk of the second limit Linux ever used
in 98 or something on the local gas
station where I used to live there was a
magazine a niche and computer magazine
had CDs often and Sue's 5.2 all over the
front cover it said a real 32-bit free
operating systems and I knew that the
windows 95 and 98 that I had at the time
was not completely I was intrigued by
the ego so real and it was freeze of
course at the tried
and Here I am they realize you lived in
a gas station I think we lost the Robin
Jeff again
Robbie took a walk yeah yeah I still got
a dude every year but I still sometimes
go through this book oh boy
[Laughter]
profit drives do the keys yeah I have to
one before but a very good oh yeah yeah
this was one of the first first games I
ever bought
I still have it no there's a point you
can you had was the non floppy floppy
see yeah my kids call them the save
buttons I've got around the house yes to
Twitter a few months ago and put the
commented that his daughter I think it
was was amazed that they he had he had a
real say button in his hand
and there she comes oh you printed the
same button yes and and will Microsoft
ever get rid of the have disk button
yeah and of course as a this was the
first computer game by own I still have
this is the cd-rom version but but there
I initially had it as on the three
floppy discs I think I think we should
do Unreal Tournament on the day that I
go through labor and this is my favorite
it is still my favorite it was the first
ex-con game with the real-time turns and
I remember how often I won battles just
by waiting for the aliens to come where
I was sitting up ambushes so I could
still run wait I have all my original
video games even the ones on the floppy
disks and everything like I've commander
key and all that kind of stuff up at
home I just can't part with it for some
reason yeah I made it okay as well going
back to it well done I'll do Goldman I'm
gonna cover somewhere my wife was an
elbow no family would back to work Oh
probably even though I'm enjoying
sitting down today Robbie picked up the
truck at 8:00 I got to the studio 8:30
and we'd be going solid ever since and
I'll probably go into the evening hours
sasha was here earlier as well with Dave
and what I've been doing throughout the
day if you are one of our Kickstarter
supporters I've been recording all
throughout the day and I will be
publishing a video tonight or tomorrow
morning depending on how quickly I can
get the server set up today have
basically the the entire day's events so
if you want to follow along with that
it'll be a lot of fun so thank you
everybody for joining us for coffee
break I hope you have a great afternoon
see ya take care you two are fine guys
