it's time for our daily coffee break
gentlemen nice to see you hi so boo way
back there in the kitchen I see p9 at
the top left soul boo top right Peter
bottom left and be marshal better known
in the community as the marsh man in the
bottom right hey guys hello I am as you
can see at Studio e now of course I'm
using this virtual background maybe I
should switch to the actual shot just so
could you imagine wouldn't that be nice
no we're not able to do any construction
around here so it looks like that it's a
white wall so like you what you're in
the productor you're in the production
studio now right in the production to
producers area yep this is where what
you've got now is what you're actually
where you're actually sitting what you
showed a minute ago was the back way is
a crypt that was the joke
I'm confused man on second few allottee
this bp9 is dreaming oh okay got it
yeah I see okay or maybe I should go
more over here and there we go now we're
talking that's better yeah you have to
be you have to be running Windows
there's no way that you're doing that on
Linux because the Linux why it won't let
you do that with a p9 I'm in the
producer studio so here I am and and and
so I'm just on the webcam yeah and it's
kind of a mess in here because I've been
tearing things apart I got a couple of
things for the rack so there's the rack
you can see the shelf there with the
mikrotik going you guys can see how like
so that's what it looks like yeah say
the sound made it doing its thing as
well yeah and I got
the power is kind of down there right
now yeah so I got a UPS with a red light
so I got a place batteries and so i
shimmied the second UPS at the front
there to give everything power just for
the coffee break so that's what we have
and then a wise cams magnetically on
there so you haven't any fuses or
breakers so presumably you're all good
for tomorrow right yeah but I did have a
power flash today which would I think
because there's a like a windstorm
outside so that happened and it was a
bit of a wake-up call because that
tripped the the crummy old UPS so that's
why I had me over this big one so I got
to buy new batteries but you know how it
is it's like the batteries themselves
are pretty expensive so no yeah I'm
gonna hit you up via email or something
Robbie because I want to talk to you
about replacing those GPS batteries yeah
same boat oh yes well I'm fortunate bp9
that the place that I work at I
mentioned it before but they they
refurbish the the battery electable they
don't refurbish the batteries they they
buy in new batteries and then they
replace the batteries in the UPS's so
and that's a pretty common practice so I
think we actually have stock right now
which would be perfect because it's not
a good time to try to get batteries
across the border so I can actually take
that in and get new batteries put in but
that my 1500 volt amp is going to take
two 12-volt batteries and each one of
those retail for like 110 bucks so so
when you start looking at that then you
start looking at like well trip light
has a 300 dollar 3u rackmount unit you
know and so what that will be no I'm
sorry Peter
what's the amp hour writing on those
batteries do you know no I don't
no I haven't that's not my department I
actually take it in and open a work
order and then take it away fixed okay
that's how it works but as I'm saying
it's like it's such a topic because I'm
I'm like very much of the mindset where
I'd rather fixed up and rather keep
things going but when the cost to
service it is almost as high as buying a
nice rack mount unit it's like you just
start to think and I know when a PC is
better than than a trip light but right
you start to think is that maybe the
route I should go so but yeah I'll make
that decision in the next couple of days
the things I have to deal with but yeah
each each they're pretty Universal the
batteries okay well what I think I'll do
is do some research on the interwebs and
as I said many many episodes ago I have
a few ups that need to that I just need
to replace the battery one the UPS is
working just fine if the battery was in
his group being there samsara they be p9
I don't recall the smaller ones like
I've got a 1000 volt lamp that will take
one battery yes 1500 volt amp takes two
so mine must be even smaller than 650
yeah rings a bell
just take one 12-volt battery yeah yeah
yeah they're pretty they're pretty easy
to access what I will tell you though
bp9 anyone who's considering replacing
the batteries and I did mention this on
a previous coffee break but I'll warn
you when you see the batteries are
available like a cheap version and an
expensive version I think I made the
comparison to a high-yield ink cartridge
for your printer okay when it doesn't
give you more power or anything but what
it does give you to get the better one
is longer life as far as how long will
that last in your ups point where you
have to replace it so no good battery
they say we'll give you three years
yep realistically I could probably pull
five years out of that okay a cheap
battery I have put cheap batteries in my
UPS as before as well they're exactly
the same voltage exactly the same
amperage but they're cheaper like
they're like $20 cheaper for the battery
and they'll last a year and then I've
got to replace them so it's just not
worth it I remember last year when I was
or the year before when I would needed
replacement I yes I have a on a PC year
VA 700 and when I watched the website or
desk order I use and I remember seeing
that they had a whole new battery a UPS
a unit it was expensive
yeah that's what I'm that's what I'm
trying to figure out is it worth buying
a new battery or should I just go ahead
and and I just buy another UPS I really
hate to just go buy another UPS because
I'm stepping up like like cords of wood
that's the thing too is it will be
cheaper bp9 to buy just the battery so
it depends on how good the UPS is
because a lot of them be there they sell
them for like the cost of the battery
like if you barrel they're all like they
say I say like when to my up8 a friend
of mine came and dropped my you cleared
on the floor and he cracked the case
code erected that rhotic really enjoyed
was okay electronics a painter I got
Young Living to Bill me I wouldn't die
and I would drive Bernie with the gouge
people over the road who called me to
parents but my dogs were forgiven for
that and they gave me two new lorry
battery friend
and are they no problems were there to
Adam Adam of any probably heir to the a
probably and I've been going out there
it's a good hack but what did I learn
when my SSD caught on fire that I do not
want to hack up cases and make them out
of flammable material I've never seen an
SSD
catch fire before it blew me away when I
saw that on your video but Peter that's
my concern UPS generates a fair amount
of heat internally still though I just I
you know there's a reason that they
build these things in a in a steel
chassis yeah more volt amp ones will be
plastic the higher volt amps they will
put them in a metal chassis with fans
came to work anyway no it would work I
just I get concerned about keep
generating electronics within a
flammable chassis that's all well okay
no one but I gotta get the material to
build it out we got wobble yeah you know
I'll make you building really broke it
it's the material that he had in hand
they angered extra work today as well I
see Ron Morissette has joined at the at
the middle right hey Ron and arrow who's
joined us at the bottom hi Ron Eric I
notice your name today I guess you've
added your name to your to your window
so I've been spelling it with a C I'm
gonna correct that on our website so
it's Eric with a K hi Eric yeah well
he'll he'll learn as soon as he as soon
as he sees that I spelled it right today
that's the European spelling a very
kismet
yeah with a cane
yeah Canadian is like er that would be
french-canadian right there where is the
line bp9 that's a good point
yeah that's true so Robbie I just wanted
to say it's all your fault
again song from Phantom of the Opera in
my stuck in my head that's just been
stuck in my head these days you're right
about that that's very true but thank
you for that point or I very much
appreciate that wasn't that enjoyable it
was a real surprise at the end of the
presentation that they brought on all
the original cast members from all that
I didn't I oh I made it 3/4 of the way
through but because it was on my
screening at the office yeah because I
was watching it while the live broadcast
was taking place
I got about 3/4 the way through before I
got called away so well you missed the
probably the last 25 minutes or so yeah
Andrew Andrew Lloyd Webber came on the
stage weld and did a speech and then he
presented all of the previous you know
the famous actors or players who had
played in previous which means the
presentation heaven and Neil yeah
exactly
yeah yeah right Mike Michael Crawford
yeah Michael Crawford and Sarah
Brightman were there Sarah yeah
I remember all and all the previous all
the other various phantoms where there
as well they also and I stood Sarah
Brightman oh yeah it was that you missed
it yeah install it no no no it was fun
to watch the to watch the presentation
at the end and real yeah yeah I'm sorry
you missed it but it was excellent I can
only hope that they're gonna release
that on blu-ray or something like that
like some other method that I could
purchase and rip it to my plex server I
love seeing it filmed properly yes like
not just a camera in the audience right
right along with credits and everything
so it was actually set up as a one of
the things that one of the things that I
remember from the presentation that I
saw previously at live was and I hope
there are no spoilers here I think
everybody here knows enough about
phantom to know how it works but if you
don't know doing live person ok I told
him just a couple days ago go see it
yeah didn't know hasn't any presentation
I seem to remember the chandelier came
down on guide wires you know as at the
beginning of the present at the
beginning of the play but that did not
happen in the televised in the they had
like LED bulbs the chandelier bulbs yes
at Pantages it was on some kind of a
tracking system so it actually came down
and it really yeah yeah because of where
the orchestra was and everything yeah
okay okay well that explains it
so so what they had to do is to shroud
it in a curtain in a circular curtain
and then lift the curtain yeah proper
reveal time which yeah wasn't anywhere
near as dramatic as as watching it live
so yeah it's that that was a I did miss
that I thought
there's some differences here but that's
okay I'll deal with that let's just say
it was more true to the original than
the movie I never saw the movie and yeah
and and the movie got got really crappy
reviews - from what I movie it was
special for me like it was like okay
they had filmed it but as as an operatic
singer myself and as somebody who's is
in love with old like old-style Broadway
it was really sad that they hired actors
who were not singers well so they they
did a fair job I mean each of them did
their level best to do their characters
but why why do a musical with actors
instead of does that really have a movie
turned it they used actors that we're
not singers correct but that's crazy
no wonder yeah great job I mean I gotta
give it to them like they bore for being
non singers they did great and they used
auto-tune and they did everything else
that they can do these days but there
wasn't the amazing like passion behind
the vocals that you would expect from a
performance yeah Andrew Lloyd Webber put
together yes on that concerts and church
new things and and being having a
musical background like I have is is a
big advantage in order you've been in
order to help create a good experience
for the listeners so you know because
then you know what do it what its own
down and a friend of mine from the from
the airport he's a sound engineer as
well
he's responsible for the for the sound
system on most of the IMAX theaters that
that you've probably seen I think he I
think he built them but he he and I got
into a discussion about mp3s at one
point and I played I played mp3 I play
in peach trees in my car I just have
them on a little player and plug it into
the USB port in the car and I just play
it in the car and it is nice and and I
know that mp3s and not the full sound
reproduction that you would get from for
instance online called format it's a
compressed format I am aware of that but
I don't mind that so much when I'm in
the car because I'm already not in an
ideal environment yeah not my team it's
not like I'm in a soundproof room where
the acoustics are perfect then I can
rate and I can listen to the music and
that's what he got grumpy about he said
the problem is that everybody is just
settling for a furrow for a crappier
version of the of the of the song yes I
know but I'm already in an environment
where it's not ideal for me to listen to
this so yes so having the full five
Wi-Fi version of that song in the car
hey a benefit so music one I always buy
a physical copy yeah you've always got a
master to go back to CD I have an actual
copy by a download depending on which
store you buy it you don't always owner
the copy you are even up even if they
give you these days they gave you a
drm-free copy the terms often say that
you are licensed to play it but actually
you're gonna be hard pressed even an
even as an audio file with a good audio
rig
- to hear audibly the difference between
a320 kilobit per second mp3 and Aflac
file realistically like at 320 kilobits
per second a 24 or 48 kilohertz I did
some testing certainly 128 you're gonna
hear it
128 you'll hear it but I was in 2007 I I
decided with my CD collection I remember
I use the week and I did nothing but see
this
and before that I have done some testing
and I hear the difference between our
128 kilobits and 196 anything above 196
I don't hear any difference so I
personally am i settled on 196 because
of a lower file size yeah you mean you
don't hear any difference in the 196
kilohertz and the original source is
that 100 yeah okay see for me I like
because data storage is so cheap these
days I opted for 320 just because that's
the closest you can get the lossless
while being compressed
but honestly 192 kilobits per second
you're probably not going to notice a
difference between that maybe 256 but
but I throw if you were in the recalls
and stuff like that like you're gonna
hear that at 192 you're not gonna you're
not going to hear that crystallisation
at 3 320 so if you're trying to record
or if you're trying to rip a CD at 320
is it kilohertz moving directly from
wrong no kilobits kill a bit okay yeah
it'll be fun point 1 kilohertz if it's a
CD okay okay how close to original do
you feel like you get then at 320 I
don't think I could audibly tell I don't
think I could tell even a 256 kilobits
file
you're not going to be able to probably
hear the difference anyway you put on
the spectrum I always put it so I'm like
they might be and then I'm not
interested in getting to that level of
detail for me
I just need if I agree with you sell
Buan and Robbie you can't hear the
difference yeah
then watch the point right I thought my
wife and I we bought a Dodge Caravan
grand caravan and I noticed a USB port
in the glove compartment and I was like
what the heck is that maybe does your
phone or whatever else so just to test
it I threw a whole bunch of mp3 files
from our plex server onto a USB flash
drive and I plugged it into that and
sure enough boom up on the screen on the
dashboard it detects all the mp3s so now
we get in the car and we just command
the car because it has this voice
activation system which is like a very
rudimentary like play artist Charlie
puth and that's three tags and it will
play whatever it finds with id3 tags for
Charlie puth and I like mine won't even
do that mine requires a an iPod nobody
but oh dude I just II wasted I wish I
knew
I just II wasted an mp3 player that
plugs into the lighter socket and you
just plug an SD card into the side of it
and it has like an on-screen display and
everything I actually said to my wife
what can we do with this now like I
can't sell it I can't give it away cuz
like everybody and everyone has some
kind of device that has their music on
it yeah so I you wasted it support and
my car I have a Kia Cee'd and and it
came is that 2008 or 7 model and it has
a it has a USB port in the in the
console
but the play the integrated software in
the player after I got the car and I
tested and it worked it took a week and
then I decided that decided that I'm
going to replace the stereo unit because
I have a thirteen gig so and on a USB
Drive but and all the artists are in
their separate folders but it's in here
yeah but that player handled every
folder as if it was just one single
folder with everything in it so all the
whole player should have the old songs
with a number one came and the same
thing happened to me when I I tried
my car is a 2012 model year I got it
Christmas 2011 as a brand new car but
it's old enough that it did exactly the
same so I tried just a regular USB stick
I tried a an Android player mp3 player
and I tried an iPod and the iPod was the
only thing that worked everything else
it did just as you described so boo it
just took every track didn't matter how
it was organized really track names word
it's 20 2014 so it's more recent than
mica you happen it's like it was just
like I discovered this feature that was
like a hidden feature of the car oh my
gosh it's awesome and what is that USB
Drive if you'd read the book drive every
season change and like I'll wipe it and
then I'll throw all the Christmas music
on it and so for the entire Christmas
season we've got Christmas music on it
then in this in the spring we put on our
summer driving
music and all that you know so it's like
it's brilliant it's wonderful I have for
my songs on there so it doesn't matter
yeah
[Music]
evolution yes if anyone still and
maintained it and I found out and I it
was too late to mention it because I
know if the last version of evolution
came second April two weeks ago
fantastic so this tells me when you say
the last version does that mean is going
to be more coming so development still
active the most recent version so
they're still developing it that's
fantastic / - is it still requires
iPhone o or the or the UI in front of it
that's driving it to call to make a call
to the to the evolution data service or
whatever service because it is a gtk
application that gives you like an
outlook clone so I'd like to find out if
if it's compatible with mappy now if
it's if they've improved that deciding
factor I mean they can update it all
they want but if it doesn't work with
nappy it doesn't help me at all one day
Wikipedia page they say that they also
have only a libraries that you can the
way I read it is that you can use only
them the evolution libraries and that
might be what I have to end up doing you
know but again whatever I provide will
just sit there and let someone calls it
so it doesn't matter I mean half a dozen
of us could could write you know half a
dozen different applications different
services to sit there and provide all
this data it won't do
so yeah well gents
time flies a today wind up dead fast I'm
here the studio because tomorrow I am
live from Studio e looking forward to it
if you have supported us on Kickstarter
you'll be getting some notifications
throughout the day so make sure you
watch for those because I've been
vlogging and I will see you for the for
the coffee break again tomorrow take
care of buddy see you enjoyed it
