while we were celebrating your birthday
on the weekend we got talking about a
particular piece of technology the echo
yes mm-hmm
it's coming tomorrow Hey okay oh is this
the gadget that you were talking about
tomorrow nice okay yeah
so now we got to get into some of the
smart home things that you can do like
being able to turn on and off your
lights with voice command yeah I haven't
asked what type of thermostat do you
have it's really nice okay well
Honeywell may have connectivity someone
oh this was just an old basic one so
call you know get yourself a nest or
something like that
it's really really nice to be alert yes
they're in the Jews I'll tell you what
no matter where you are in the house
being able to say what's the temperature
in the house and get a response and then
say turn the temperature down a half a
degree it's really super handy like if
you're laying in bed you can say turn on
the bedroom fan oh yeah on you your
don't even have to sit oh right but you
can just put the little dongle thing in
the wall and then plug your fan in right
you can voice command it to turn on so
here's the funny thing
yeah you know that I've always been like
ah you know and my wife has been she's
like I don't need that he listens all
the time yeah no actually what sold us
was lists shopping lists and shops and
stuff that was a stranger we talked
about it a couple times after we were at
your place and that is the thing she's
excited about and now yeah I'm not a
list person I'm getting excited about it
because so often we'll open up the
fridge it's like where is that right but
so you I have it
don't tell us right but I have it in the
kitchen so and this is the Amazon echo
dot that I have and so we use up the
ketchup or it's getting low and I say
keyword add ketchup to my shopping list
yeah boom Bing it's on my phone and then
when I'm in the store this is the
brilliant part when I'm in the
store it has a checklist and I can check
things off and they've vanished off of
there now I want to say because I know
you're concerned about it
listening when it shouldn't listen and I
know some viewers are have thought I
don't I've heard stories and these this
has been in the news like come on people
we need to do better journalism than
this that sometimes it will come on
because it thought you said the word
right okay or misete sounds like the key
word and so it triggers on and starts
listening and recording the conversation
and sending it to Hamazon right that's a
concern of some people so what I did is
I just in my app I set it to make a
trigger tone so every time it thinks
it's heard the word it makes itself it
goes did you hear that you know that and
then I say cancel so because our our key
word is computer so sometimes we say the
word computer in our day-to-day
conversation
and we say cancel that was gonna be my
question because we have some friends
yes the name is Alexia okay don't say it
out loud though no but that's what it's
without an eye but yeah yes that's them
say it's so close oh I see the ho the
daughter like the kid or the person we
know so it's like their name is right so
we'd be having these conversations about
yeah and it's like I don't want to set
the thing off or have it right you know
so although or whatever so what are the
options a lax a yeah is option one
that's the default computer is another
one and Amazon oh those are your three
options out of the box now there is talk
that firmware updates may eventually and
improve that and even make it so that
you can customize it but right now it's
not possible so you have have you found
that computer is the most it's the most
fun as Trekkies okay from pewter what's
the date and it answers me okay but from
your day-to-day and life use you find
that that's the one that doesn't trigger
it as often no I trigger it triggers a
lot see it triggers a lot just say
cancel because you hear the tone didn't
and we say cancel hey that's all it
takes is
and it stops listening because it but if
you're having conversations and you
don't want it to ever listen there is a
above physical mute button and Google
Home has that as well we considered a
Google home but I did some research
yeah and so many different reviews going
down to the specs and few actions like
the echo blue the Google home out of the
water yeah and I found it's that's my
preference I have both yeah I haven't
plugged in the Google dot but
interestingly nothing we did the review
in the studio they're nice but the
Google impressed me more yeah really
in studio when we did that show I think
it's a matter of preference - yeah and
they're both very usable devices right
and a lot of the stuff is compatible
with both you buy the light and it'll
work on either so it doesn't mean I have
a fire stick right no I have I have the
ability to access right because I can
talk through it Google home mini but you
have an amazon firetv stick yes yeah
I'll talk to one another but it does
mean that I can also talk to her yeah
well but when you ask the Google home
mini to do something with the fire TV
stick does it go never make em talk
[Music]
[Applause]
