covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias the good old 3d BCD database
service that and its services will be
shut down on March 31st 2020 now there
are dozens of applications that make it
easy to rip a music CD to your computer
saving digital versions of the tracks as
mp3 or WAV or flak or even other audio
files but one of the key services many
of those applications rely on is set to
shut down at the end of March free DB is
a free online database of track listings
of millions of CDs without this type of
database you'd either end up having to
have a bunch of nameless files or you'd
have to manually type in the album names
the artists info the song titles and
other data into your computer every time
you rip a CD while free DB isn't the
only service of its type it's been one
of the most prominent services providing
track listing data for nearly two
decades free DB data was originally
based on information from the CD BB data
service which eventually became
proprietary software and prohibited lice
unlicensed applications from using the
data so free DB Wow free BB cddb
it all runs together doesn't it but they
are a free service operated under a GPL
license and it now consists of user
generated data so service company magics
acquired free DB in 2006 and continued
to support the free service until now
it's unclear why magics has decided to
pull the plug after all of these years
fortunately there's an alternative
online music database called musicbrainz
that's operated under a Creative Commons
license that effectively places the data
into the public domain which means it
should continue to work with third-party
software indefinitely no matter what but
if you're using an old CD ripping
service or music management software
that only supports free DB it
maybe time to look for some kind of
alternative
[Music]
