from Ameritrade comm they pointed this
out to us this week well this week is a
very special week for a particular retro
game Tetris turns 35 years old can you
believe it happy birthday Tetris make me
feel old
I remember when Tetris was new I
remember playing Tetris with my grandma
yeah we played it on the Nintendo
Entertainment System
those are great memories yeah Tetris and
Othello and that's that's that's my
memory where did you first try Tetris we
have we even buy Tetris like we have
Tetris on like a handheld it is just
Tetris
that's just like black boxes that fall
on a grey screen yeah retro all the way
actress I can't remember the first time
I played it I feel like it's been around
almost my whole life so yeah pretty much
house yeah right cuz you're what 36 then
yeah okay I know I know I was just
trying to win points yeah you won them
fantastic 35 years old is Tetris and
we're gonna install it on a Linux
machine in three seconds flat are you
ready for this folks this comes to us
from Ameritrade coms Ameri blog
I'm gonna go sudo apt install actually
first I'm gonna go sudo apt update we're
gonna throw that in there for us because
first of all I want to make sure that my
app repositories are up-to-date so with
that now I'm gonna type sudo once it's
done I think how many repositories do I
bloody well have cinelerra has about
3,000 of them oh my goodness can you
guys tell that I've been trying to find
a Linux video editor that works
alright sudo apt install and the program
that I want is called tint now figure
that one out it's called tint but it is
Tetris Tetris for the masses folks it's
already installed it's done and done and
notice I'm doing this through
my terminal but you can install you can
run this on any Linux server or as a
marriage right pointed out you can
install this run this on a single board
computer brilliantly and of course here
I am on my laptop which is running Linux
Mint it says choose your level to start
oh is one the lowest I can go ok on my
keyboard is gonna rotate so let's let's
throw that down there ok let's let's see
how Robbie yeah yeah ok so here we are
celebrating 35 years of Tetris and it
looks like this is antique for sure this
is running in my Linux terminal I
absolutely love it thank you to a
marriage Roy comm for pointing this one
out to us it's called tint and you can
install it from your apt repositories go
go go Robbie go yes
yeah and again this is running in my
terminal I can install this on any
server because absolutely you need a
boss key am i right folks I wanted to go
to the right and I pushed down
I am so messed up now so that is endgame
right there
you guys thought that yes the Avengers
was in-game no this is endgame
Ameritrade calm I mentioned them make
sure you check out their website check
out a Mara blog and incidentally check
out their coupon code you have it there
somewhere but it is the coupon code is
TV supporter cat 5 TV supporter all one
word and that will prove that you
support cap 5 TV and the onion so doing
you will in fact receive a discount on
check out of any single board computer
purchased at Ameritrade dot-com
[Music]
[Applause]
you
