how much work would it be for you to
show us the model Tom vo - moving this
wonderful tribe so here we are in Tom's
office at at the Fox lot we're gonna
have to censor that alright so this is
the this is the model folks that that
they used at the Orville I can flop the
camera I can't it's not Jenny lanolin
area those are the actual model folks
that was set that was used to shoot
those kids know what is it made of
it's made of Russell hopes dreams tears
no it's a resin it was partially 3d
printed supposed to be touching with the
gloves so I'm gonna do that here is old
little kid fashion going on here a few
those who know that term yeah get us in
there Tom I want to see details I want
to see details that we'd never see
before look at that so you see yeah
Claire's in focus is little hard for me
to see pretty good pretty good
so but but there's some there's some
amazing detail on theirs now granted
we're making the model way more detailed
you know as time as the digital model
get yes more and more sorry never seen a
lot of phone here use one of the other
three cameras yeah right so is the model
you said that has been dinged and broken
and like where are those breaks because
this looks perfect looks pristine
I will show you some since you guys are
very so see this right here yes okay so
because it is 3d printed because yeah
you know it's a very sensitive thing and
it's been on display before so this over
here this actually the it's bent a
little bit so we keep it in a very
special case here to keep it supported
obviously we can glue this back down and
hold it but you know it's it's it's it's
it's an aerodynamic shape and it
eventually it's it's gonna you know it's
gonna deteriorate so we try and keep it
you know Christine as much as possible
now because it's more of an artifact of
the show than an actual working model
right right there's amazing you know
it's it's did this for us it was a
beautiful work yeah that's amazing I
mean I I posted photos of it before yeah
some close-ups even though we've never
seen this is let me show you the bottom
but you know the light you know labs you
have the working quantum rings and all
these other stuff and it's probably hard
to see but there's actually this so much
for my great filming but there's a
there's a you can see get in there I'm
sorry
hang on one sec yeah it's all good it's
it's worth it on television
yeah isn't it fun okay and just another
example and what we couldn't do so so
you know this is actually yeah there we
go thanks Brooke so if you can look here
I'll let you on the phone or not all
right so this is if you knew how
complicated this was okay now you get a
better look at it right wow there's
actually a little shuttle in there which
is hard to see but you lower the camera
four degrees lower the camera a bit for
us we weren't quite seeing it if we can
just see right into the shuttle bay
so I am contorting here to get down into
yes Knox can you see it no I see a lot
of foam or underneath the ship now yeah
we're under it oh wow it's filled with
foam but it's beautiful they put the
foam but see that but see the same
painting down here the same
yeah markings is our actual real live
stage so Jenna score J the foam is put
in there recently just to protect we can
pull that out but I kind of don't want
to mess with it cuz I like the guys from
the actual model company - yeah I mess
with it so yeah oh that's me - is well
thank you for showing us
