covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias according to a spokesperson
for the company Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey
told employees on Tuesday that many of
them will be allowed to work from home
in perpetuity even after the corona
virus pandemic ends in an email first
obtained by BuzzFeed news Dorsey said it
was unlikely that Twitter would open his
offices before September and that all in
person events would be canceled for the
remainder of the year
the company will accept assess its plans
for 2021 events later this year the
spokesperson said we were uniquely
positioned to respond quickly and allow
folks to work from home given our
emphasis on decentralization and
supporting a distributed workforce
capable of working from anywhere the
past few months have proven we can make
that work so if our employees are in a
role and situation that enables them to
work from home and they want to continue
to do so forever we will make that
happen if not our offices will be there
warm and welcoming selves with some
additional precautions when we feel it's
safe to return Twitter's new policy
comes as businesses around the world are
struggling to adapt to social distancing
guidelines and rethinking how they will
operate in a post pandemic world major
tech companies such as Facebook Google
and Microsoft were early to move to a
work-from-home model and have also been
the most cautious and planning for
moving employees back into the office
Google has told employees that the vast
majority of them will work from home
until 2021 though some will return in
the early summer Facebook will similarly
start to reopen offices after the July 4
weekend but
employees who are able to work from home
do so until next year
[Music]
