welcome to the coffee break
hi everybody huh today's the 17th of May
yeah that's it yeah welcome all right I
got that out of the way see you later
[Laughter]
yeah no it's the 17th of May 2020
I'm I'm paying sold boo a visit today so
that's why that's why we're both on the
same camera just doing a good job
they're making you a sandwich
you would hurry up hey come on solve it
pick up the pace man I'm starving over
here man dude get the headphones off you
can't even hear me listen to some kind
of classical or something rap battles
but I think I've lost I think I've lost
my connection oh look I think it should
come back yeah it's just everybody's
frozen so I'm sure that we're all moving
on my screen
yeah I'm sure your soul is local so I
was the only one standing still not
really making any headway here that is
it must be a Dagwood yeah no he's got
yourself in a in a groundhog day look I
have an observation that Peter has
upgraded his his webcam fantastic oh oh
I didn't know that
well looks great much better much better
very nice
so I met I'm actually at the studio
today ah yeah so that's that's all I got
oh this is my break get you a coffee
over across the road or no no no I
brought one with me it's on the drive on
the drive in you can't even see it
you must use some kind of AI to detect
if it's an object or a person because
like I can I can put my hand here oh
there goes it must only work by contrast
or something it's not though because
some general idea of what a human should
look like so but but if you stick your
hand out there you don't look like a
human anymore but you see I get out of
the chair and the chair stays right it's
weird
yeah it's pretty neat technology though
but I'll turn it off because Silver's
just taking too long making me that
sandwich just not happening so what are
you guys up to oh this weekend is it a
long weekend for anyone else or is it
just us here in Canada no just you in
Canada hmm oh you guys have the u.s.
holiday next weekend though right so
Marsh man was saying yeah so that's too
much man on here for a while yeah where
is it yet getting into trouble what day
is it in Canada Robbie it's the 17th
that's Sunday yeah but what's the
holiday you're not talking about like
right now at this very moment the
holiday is tomorrow Monday is Victoria
Day ah okay reference to Queen Victoria
it is it is yeah so I'm here I have an
interview in in about 45 minutes so you
guys watch for that I'll give you more
details on the coming coming coffee
break cuz I don't I don't know the
details yet but I'm B I know who your
interview I am being interviewed scoop
you know the reason for the interview
can you reveal the reason for the
interview well I don't I don't know yet
like all that all that he's gonna ask me
so I'll tell you on the flip side but
yeah I'll talk to you guys about it
tomorrow when I know more but I'm
guessing it's got something to do it
category 5 right I'm guessing so I mean
yeah more super it's more super secret
squirrel stuff he's not it's not looking
anything he's not letting anything go I
just don't know enough yeah I know that
I'm where I'm supposed to be when I'm
supposed to be there okay I'm not
looking to change jobs no no no no no
not that kind of interview Nova zoom
interview there they're gonna be talking
to probably even do job interviews over
zoom yeah mm-hmm that's gonna happen eh
I mean it's already happening but yeah
that's that's the new way I was thinking
about how like cuz we wanted to to hire
somebody here to help out and that's you
know who knows what's happening now but
but yeah I had to have that thought like
well how do we conduct an interview now
how do we interview somebody and have
them audition because you can't be
within the same room so your first
return show when you were interviewing
the folks from the Oval and also Amy DD
the video quality was exceptional it was
actually very good
so was that was that dude that was zoom
yeah what was there but and it's hit or
miss like I guess it depends on the
network condition at the time like right
now everything looks really good to me
but sometimes it's really bad well
that's because there's nobody VPN ting
into work you know in the middle of the
day is that the difference maybe here we
are on a Sunday afternoon yeah so this
looks a lot better than than usual so
what just think the network loads a lot
less over the weekend yeah then it would
be for everybody who's able to to be
literally dialing in two words
hmm so certainly that like zoom to have
to field that many conversations would
be a lot of bandwidth yeah and no doubt
they've got some sophisticated
throttling in place that makes sure that
hey if we're not able to keep up with
the bandwidth turn down the quality dish
make sense so I'm thinking about I'm
thinking about sitting my router
Kuragin my modem to ridging mode oh yes
what whatever whatever gave you that
idea well you did I'll actually think
thinking about it for a while but my
biggest concern has been is the only
your Wi-Fi cuz they just believe you
have to fiddle with the W rubber yes you
had to fiddle with you had to get to
misread I follow me Oh cuz it's your
zooming that's why Robbie's got a new
toy oh boy was not to interrupt you but
elegant on camera well it's worth a try
no focus is on it's trying to focus I'm
making it we can't figure out what to
focus on is the problem
I'm right here camera focus tuck could
it be although no it's not even focused
on the wall focused on anything he must
be a bug flying around in front of him
or something and it's focused on me I'll
tell you where the bug is no it's in the
mechanism itself sorry so you carry
carry on it just ignore problem not a
problem it's
I gotta be ready for this interview oh
well you should have just left it alone
but no you have to mess with it I didn't
I didn't want the big wide shot where
you can see like the baseboard and
everything go back to go back to the
presume you had a while ago maybe that's
what's causing zoom out yeah oh my no
that's way too far that's it go back
back back back
all the way all the way back out Robbi
back out - stop right there that's it
perfect there you go you can see the
edges of the teleprompter I know I see
that yep yep but you're in perfect focus
so that's good enough that's what's
happening right it's it's resume that's
missing you up for school I think it's
trying to focus like maybe they'll
because there's so much sunlight coming
in right now the teleprompter itself see
that did you see the screen I think it's
trying to focus on the glass interest
inched up I know turn off the lights Rob
you close the [ __ ] in the dark yeah
maybe effect hey Pierre you got the
video going great the audio is not so
much I can't hear you Peter can anyone
make him out no you just said he wants
to ask your question that's all okay and
remember how I was saying the zoom
looked great today yeah not so much to
do back
go ahead with your question Peter vp9
will translate for us
aka immense April I wish and I would
welcome her windows the other day
Chicago other windows in haft I took it
off a guy from my my giving work of our
windows broke commander in stroke went
in another look and the sandbox settings
a window is the one that you know you
have to take her antics I could using a
razor wire with a rock rock or was it
double weight somewhere in the room I
don't recall ever having to took tick a
box to do a Windows Update Peter so I
don't know what it is you had to take
wish there was such a box so that I
could taking a few succeed in setting
Samba I'm going to work because willing
to remember and I was working over at
only one died yesterday with a burger
today decided not to work women to have
a look a frontage and when Mockridge
suggested it could be windows up tightly
and taking the dejected there with it at
once hmm below in the Bible II know okay
I did not get very much of that but it
sounds like what you're saying is that
one of your programs quit working after
Windows Update and that's certainly
that's certainly possible
now I solely
about a couple things back and I asked
about why I could even get my hand back
on my window it broke but it worked on
my name's Brooks and Bill told me that
do you have to go into the decorative
window and there's hvm no that's Samba
Samba version one you need it for for
your windows machine you need to enable
it yet but what happened go ahead well
they decided to the the windows at night
he took it off the guy and not women are
wired took below what over ask Microsoft
why they do the things they do they
constantly break things with their
updates it's one of the reasons we all
tend to lean away from Microsoft
absolutely where we do that thank you
then if you don't get to Tony all right
well there's no easy way to fix that
though Peter because if you roll back
the update and re-enable Samba version 1
Windows will just come right back and
try and update itself again and it'll
get more and more aggressive until it
finally says I'm updating this and I
don't care what you say so you don't you
don't want to install some Samba one you
just need to enable it in the Windows
settings it's already it's already there
you just got to turn it on a security
setting they don't need to go to that
you know yeah I don't know I use Linux
Mint myself PC the only PC you will that
top that I have that wrong Windows is
the work one and it's it's locked down
so tight you can't even look at the at
the compare the properties of the
computer so I don't even go don't even
care about that as far as I'm concerned
if it lets me do what I need to do we're
done but I don't know
contiguity laughing probably on the wing
good to go I did a date night in the air
we don't engage in jail today and the
Edward of Roman brook which I attended
back on again networking again I can
contact my link books Uncle John grandma
leaves are upstairs again but I I'm
going trying to get through get reformed
where and I'm not we use depend in any
war yeah dragon English but that's why
I'm going toward range of now friendly
we could get the rest of the world to
get off or windows or more specifically
[Music]
well one of the things that that kinda
bugs me a bit and actually it was Robbie
Thank You Robbie for alerting me to that
is that the later versions of Firefox
override your overlay your DNS settings
yeah and I've got a problem with that -
I mean I rather I would rather point you
know well I absolutely agree with you
that it should be the system not the
browser besides what DNS to use yeah
yeah and and I got a lot of I got a lot
of flack for having such a strong stance
did you really I did yeah because a lot
of folks disagree with me on that point
so this is with regards to Mozilla
Firefox
enforcing h dns over https doe so yeah I
just they shouldn't do that wait a
minute wait a minute I don't have a
problem with DNS over HD epic roblem
taking my advice I have a problem with
Firefox saying I don't care what the
system says at the NS I should use we
think you should use this DNS I have
problem with that so what if you steady
PMS and your router does it over right
dad - yep
yeah because it doesn't it doesn't use
the router maybe you're maybe you're
pointing your system to your router for
DNS well it's bad luck you don't get to
you know get to use that thing in this
anymore even if it's in your local
router so with Robbie without you
contact with a micro tech we can now we
can enforce that not if not if Firefox
says no you use a different IP address
for me and EMS Oh unless you
deliberately unless you deliberately
directed that IP address to your local
to a local machine somewhere on the
river you can take DNS passing through
the router and enforce a transparent
redirect so that you're forcing it to
point to your piehole but you shouldn't
have to go to that trouble am I right
yes so so Mike my problem with it was
that you know I set up a safe filtered
Network at home to keep my kids safe to
keep things off you had a network that
we don't want and so I just thought it
would really uncool that yeah I just
wanted to clarify one thing though
Robbie was the backlash that you got
because of DNS over HTTP or because of
Firefox deciding what would be an issue
should use yeah they disagreed with me
on that point that point especially on
which Firefox's choice to enforce their
own but they were but they were okay
with DNS overage
of course yeah yeah is there reason for
doing that for cyber HTTP what is there
what is Firefox is reason for enforcing
their own DNS hide your DNS requests
from your ISP privacy but that's over
HTTP yes does the same thing so what
happens if you use tor well they they
can't trace that presumably well never
the question is what what DNS does to
use tor is based on Firefox presumably
an earlier version of Firefox and I'd be
because Firefox is open source I bet you
that tour just disables that piece of
Firefox but all these are distributed
right it's not it's not that it's hidden
it's that it's obscured but you still
have to use a Danish to locate the other
nodes yeah yeah I always thought that
tor used a random DNS that's why you
look like you could be in Germany when
you were in the u.s. yeah but which day
an issue use doesn't determine that
which node you end up pointing to or
directing your your traffic through is
the node debt that it looks like you're
from so tor will go you know will direct
your request through like half a dozen
if it's configured that way
couple dozen different nodes and if
somebody tries to trace that node out of
Germany for instance they'll probably
end up in in in in Australia somewhere
and then and then from Australia if they
try to follow that they'll end up in
that in Hong Kong and if they go to Hong
Kong
you know if they trace it back as far as
Hong Kong they'll finally go back to you
know they'll end up over in England
somewhere and then they go back to the
US well if they're able to trace it back
that far yes yes well I'm on everybody
else's traffic as well
what one of what brave right yeah which
is by stormwater Firefox okay okay camp
5 DD / brave is some information about
it but it's it blocks advertising and it
also has built-in cryptocurrency it's
not mining what they do is they block
regular ads on websites the ones that
websites are displaying and instead they
give you ads that are paying you to use
the browser so you get paid rather than
the advertiser get five dot TV slash
watt brave the rav no brave like I am
brave yeah yeah yeah ero like Oh like
the first part the first half of brave
heart so I got the fat was working on
this thing now there's an ax 100 it's
never done that before
what I have to do I have powered it off
and let it sit for 10 seconds and then
powered it all gone again
but yeah must be running Windows now now
it's got this stupid automatic exposure
or Expo white balance which I don't like
so it's it's skewing everything toward
the blue spectrum yeah that does look
does look hopefully blue moving slowly
please cat five dot TV
brave hi Robert
that's Bravo Remy Oh alpha Victor echo
echo Frey see it's doing it again wow
that looks very dark Robby it just said
yeah I can't oh I got to get this right
guys I thought I was supposed to be hunt
break I don't get breaks cause you
missed you missed with the zoo you moved
the mouse and it's windows so it has to
reboot it's not alien whoops oh the
computer I guess is yeah no but that has
nothing to do with the camera but the
operating system inside the camera is
Windows that's what you don't know yet
okay I'm gonna increase the exposure
there we go now what can I do more hi
everybody hello robert hey Robert I
finally was naked
yeah but we're about to get shut down
because Robbie's getting ready for in
each of you like about five minutes left
well not much 11:25 yeah doing fantastic
Oh a little bit overworked but oh yeah
otherwise always doing great thank you
for asking good man
what about you well hanging in it's been
kind of mental though like doing my job
to stay on top of everything and get
everything done that needs to be done
but yeah this is what it is oh good of
course not everybody a little bit
difficult yeah yeah that's true
now watch is the camera see that look at
the desaturation happening did you guys
see that
no we're told at least I don't see it no
okay
well that's supposed to be white so
that's white see how the camera is now
nice and happy
that looks nice take the white card away
the camera suddenly starts fading toward
the blue spectrum yeah it's not white
anymore anyway I'll figure that out on
my time well I gotta be ready for this
interview yep oh boy tomorrow's another
day boys
yeah nice Peter oh great now I'm gonna
have to support it yeah like why isn't
stuff coming up just don't don't launch
an INT or mode okay Peter cuz that's
gonna get cause all kinds of confusion
yeah it has built-in tour so anyway guys
I gotta get ready for this interview but
thank you for being here real quick a
real quick one before you go was theorem
epic right yesterday I couldn't be there
so I think soul boo and Peter came by so
thanks guys
unfortunately I was I was unavailable so
but I try to be here every day pretty
rare that I know my problem yeah I tried
to leave Internet but it didn't get for
me either so yeah like I'm supposed to
be taking a break well no I can control
everything from one thing to the next
thing to the next thing today sorry
Robbie I'm sorry I think I'll get a
break around dinnertime which I'm
looking forward to it mmm sounds like a
plane I gotta take it easy see you
tomorrow
good luck interview Robbie take care
Robbie
