welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 624 of the shine now
I gotta say while President Donald Trump
doesn't know that category five exists
it does and we're here to show you the
category five does indeed exist and this
week we're gonna be actually speaking
with a gentleman who runs a company that
is revolutionising Wi-Fi technology and
I mean we're talking about expanding
your home and business Wi-Fi to
bandwidth that you've never even thought
about we're gonna be learning all about
the tech oh you just wait son stick
around our live recordings are trusted
only the solid state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer to TuneIn we every week on roku
cody Plex and other HLS video players
for local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 dot TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia IB I'm so
happy to have you here everybody I'm
Robby Ferguson
hi Sasha Rickman and I'm Jeff Weston
where's Henry he's not here he's
actually off planet still oh yeah I know
he's still off planet it's a long
journey yet folks Watts thanks to
technology we have an intergalactic
connection oh hey we could say hi with
Henry oh great well here he is
hey guys how's it going - tenor here so
I can't make it to the show kind of got
stuck on Mars you see it's a lot of red
sand here it's uh it's pretty nice um I
discovered a lot of liquid water over
there it's pretty cool
yeah sorry can't make it this week
hopefully Elon Musk can give me a ride
home for next week so till then have a
great day everyone and see you then oh I
have my dog says hi hey well thank you
Henry now Before we jump into it I want
to want to remind you to make sure you
subscribe to us on YouTube and also
click that little bell that's gonna make
sure that you get those notifications
anytime we post a new and exciting video
or when we're live so tonight we've got
a fantastic interview planned for you
now Andrew scaffold is here from well
he's actually the CEO the president of
Edgewater Wireless now they're
revolutionising how Wi-Fi technology
works in the home in the workplace and
we're gonna learn all about that tonight
Andrew it is a pleasure to have you with
us thank you for having me now could you
tell us a little bit about what
Edgewater does and how your technology
is about to change things for Wi-Fi hey
ed water wireless we make Wi-Fi better
we're the industry leader in what's
called Wi-Fi spec spectrum slicing
technology for the residential and
commercial markets and it's real
disruptive approach for Wi-Fi designed
to deal with capacity and the demanding
applications that are emerging I can
absolutely understand that I mean we
work in a studio where you know you
bring in your easel you're connected
with Wi-Fi on your phone chatting with
the the community here you can see our
discord over there yep I'm connected
actually with you Andrew through Wi-Fi
as well so this communication I mean
mind-blowing that the communication is
happening through Wi-Fi and you're also
communicating with our chat on Wi-Fi and
eventually things start to get bogged
down yeah we've all experienced that at
home at work right yeah and right to a
bigger badder router with more
that's when our Roku start buffering and
things just aren't quite working so
Andrew how is your technology special
compared to like the Wi-Fi that we
currently have in our homes you a what
you've just described is really the
traditional approach to Wi-Fi yeah the
technology has been around since 1999
and since 1999 Wi-Fi has followed the
same radio architecture it's been based
on a single channel radio one radio one
channel connecting to your device and
it's a lot like creating a single lane
road yeah where we have one car on the
road works really well but you start
putting a lot of traffic on it it gets
really congested Jeff travels to Toronto
and he knows exactly what that's exactly
yeah what we've done at Edgewater
Wireless is taken a completely
revolutionary approach to Wi-Fi oK we've
said you know how do you deal with
traffic how do you deal with congestion
yeah and we built and patented the
industry's first and only multi-lane
highway for Wi-Fi we offer multiple
concurrent channels within a given
coverage area Wow so it's really
designed for all of the issues that you
described at the beginning of the show
so Andrew I I have to stop you there I
mean we've all heard of MIMO so
multi-input multi-output this is where
we've got our modern routers have
multiple antennas so if I want to spend
a little extra I can get something that
has four antenna say and I've got four
inputs four outputs so I am basically
from my very simple Wi-Fi understanding
I've got multiple channels or multiple
radios that are giving me connections so
this is where things are going from what
I understand we've got Wi-Fi 6 we've got
now Wi-Fi 6 is finally here and Wi-Fi 7
is already basically saying that hey
we're better and let's move toward this
technology
using MIMO multi-input multi-output in
order to provide multiple lanes how does
your technology approach that how is it
different so it's really cool
engineering yeah who does is take that
single channel and spreads the broadcast
over multiple antennas so the multiple
output multiple input yeah okay now in
spreading it over multiple antennas if
you're talking to a device that has
multiple antennas like your big laptop
on your desk there and your four
antennas on on your router four antennas
on your laptop you get some great burst
speed yeah but there's some significant
trade-offs with with MIMO each time you
add an antenna you need to cut the power
output in half but more intense means
your coverage area shrinks smaller and
smaller and it becomes more susceptible
to interference and that's why a lot of
what we're seeing in Wi-Fi today is
based on that I'm on those issues right
yeah yeah devices you have the mortgage
you're in students and it does really it
really seems like they're throwing more
more radios at the problem like let's
just add more antennas let's add more
inputs and outputs actually that's right
and so you see things like MIMO adding
more antennas or you see the clock rate
which is that the number of dots of
information they get gets passed each
time you see those things climb higher
and higher you know looking back at 1999
when Wi-Fi was first envisioned it was
envisioned for use in your basement
right from when I talked to a router or
maybe downloading an email or AOL or
whatever using an idea I mean I know
fast forward to today
and your average house has way you know
10 20 devices and the cable industry are
planning for 40 to 60 devices in your
home it's a completely different dynamic
so there are a lot of these things
increase the burst speed but they
decrease the airtime utilization or the
amount of spectrum that's available for
all of those other devices so you know
what we've done it at Edgewater's we
said well you that's great
and it works really well for those you
know burst applications but but really
how you in keep increased capacity well
you actually need more radios in a given
coverage area
yeah now the problem with doing that
using a traditional radio is you create
interference you know you notice that in
your house when you stick two access
points close together and the
performance declines that's adjacent and
co-channel interference so what we've
done is you through our patent portfolio
and some really cool technology is we've
eliminated or mitigated the impacts of
adjacent and co-channel interference to
deliver more performance in the real
world Wow Jeff and I actually ran into
one another at a concert recently yes
and what did they have up on the on the
screen it was some game that the kids
play some game that the kids play yeah
it was it was just one of those
interactive games like something from
like jackpot games or whatever where
everybody can connect to through the
Wi-Fi yeah through the Wi-Fi and through
their cell phone to this server within
the building and there was what 250
people in the room yeah and what Andrew
I could not connect oh and my poor kids
Andrew I'll tell you what my kids I have
my three kids they're at the concert
with me and they all wanted to
participate in this game so the band was
up and they had it up on the screen and
everybody connect and play and we
couldn't get connected my wife and I
could not get on because everyone else
was already using the bandwidth right
right so my poor kids were like please
dad you gotta buy a data plan like this
is really what it came down to and so we
were in the situation we're in this
concert we couldn't get that
connectivity that explains why I didn't
win the game yeah I absolutely I thought
you just couldn't even participate so it
is this going
to open that up to like is your
technology Andrew going to be able to
give us the ability to have more
connectivity and more devices in a
scenario such as that absolutely you
know the biggest the biggest challenge
in that scenario is the first people to
connect take it take the airtime right
they they take up the time slots
available what anybody else can connect
and this is exactly where we play you
know are are your real genesis of our
idea was around stadiums and venues yeah
have all of these people in close
proximity and we've done some
extraordinarily you know extraordinary
things there and adding more channels
and delivering that capacity now now
fast forward to the home and what we're
seeing in the home now and then talking
to some of the biggest cable providers
in the world you know up to 40% of their
customer care calls are Wi-Fi related so
it's an extraordinary problem in the
home as well sure yeah so what has you
personally I mean as the president the
CEO of the very company that's bringing
us this patented technology what has you
so excited about your technology you eat
fruit for me it's the the extraordinary
opportunity that's in front of us you
know we've done something that is
revolutionary it's different and we've
transitioned from that phase of well
these guys are just crazy
yeah because they've got something
different we're still in that phase just
like and so you know that that
transitions from the the crazy
innovative idea that may or may not have
a market yeah to all of a sudden the
market has shifted to density hmm and
the realization that you know all the
speed in the world isn't gonna help you
if you're stuck in traffic so that
requires an extraordinary shift in the
way Wi-Fi has been delivered and that's
what gets me really excited is this
enormous opportunity for you
it'd be you know millions of residential
customers in the world yeah
billions wow you're coming up with such
a thought that it like just the the very
thought that has never occurred to me
which is we're all about
give me more speed right I want I want
that thirty gigabit Wi-Fi that's what
I'm hoping for with Wi-Fi seven but
first come first serve folks so hey if
you're the 250th person sitting at the
concert I'm sorry you're not yeah you're
here out of luck sorry folks
we're gonna speak more with Andrew about
this technology when we return we're
gonna be talking about licensing we're
gonna be talking about adoption and how
Andrew and his company are actually
bringing this technology bringing
multi-channel single radio Wi-Fi to the
masses stick around
[Music]
since its creation Wi-Fi devices have
used a single-channel technology for
both sending and receiving data traffic
going up keeps data from coming down and
the amount of devices only adds to the
problem dual channel Wi-Fi promises to
ease our wireless congestion at cable
labs we have liberated devices by
enabling one or more new channels
designated for downstream data only
traffic which essentially eliminates
video issues such as buffering
pixelation and other annoying side
effects from our single channel past
this downstream data only channel
alleviates congestion with the help of a
configurable traffic routing filter that
diverts data packets to the additional
channels based on different aspects of
data traffic time critical data and
large downstream traffic like video can
make use of the data only channels while
all upstream traffic and small
downstream packets like emails and texts
remain in the primary Channel the end
result is effective and efficient use of
Wi-Fi so you can keep everyone in your
home happy and connected dual channel
Wi-Fi keeps Internet traffic flowing
while reducing the Wi-Fi bottleneck I'm
speaking with Andrew scaffold he's the
president and CEO of Edgewater Wireless
now Andrew before the break you
mentioned a particular technology which
I'm curious about you called it
Wi-Fi spectrum slicing now it was a
quick mention but I have no idea what
you're talking about
can you explain that to me so Wi-Fi
spectrum slicing is simply taking the
scarce spectrum and slicing it up okay
and allowing you more independent
channels to operate within the space so
it's really it's a really revolutionary
approach to the way Wi-Fi is delivered
so is this so we're taking an existing
connectivity like I'm just trying to get
my head around this Andrew so understand
I want to be a little bit of a proxy for
my viewers I want to understand this but
I
so want my viewers to to vicariously
understand this through me so are we
taking an existing single channel radio
and splicing it up in such a way that it
is now accessible with more inputs and
outputs simultaneously is that what
we're talking about that's that's right
so if you look at Wi-Fi it's either in
the 2.4 the 5 gigahertz spectrum - right
we can take the 2.4 gigahertz spectrum
and slice it up so you can pack more
radios operating new transmitting and
receiving within the given area right
they went to it in 2.4 that's three
concurrent channels in 5 gigahertz we're
shipping three channels today but that's
going all the way up to million
concurrent channels well so it's a
phenomenal shift to the capacity in the
element fantastic we all know about full
duplex and bi-directional data travel
and you know if we only have
unidirectional data well if I'm sending
data
I can't receive data at the same time I
need that constant by directionality of
the technology and we're talking about
opening that up into a wider space now
just just quickly before we get into
viewer questions we've got some
questions that have come in on our chat
Jeff you're standing by Sasha you're
standing by and folks if you are if you
happen to be watching live you are one
of the be chosen few and you've got an
opportunity to ask those questions in
our discourse as well as IRC yeah it's a
great opportunity for you to get those
questions in before we get into that
Andrew we saw a short commercial there
from a company called cable labs and so
I'm curious with your company being
Edgewater how you are related to cable
labs at what what is the relationship
there so that we understand that a cable
labs is the nonprofit innovation and R&amp;D
engine for the global cable industry now
as as part of cable labs they have a an
accelerator program called up Graham and
were an alumni of the up ramp
accelerator
and the program is really designed to
get new and emerging technologies
introduced into the 500 billion dollar
cable industry so it's been a you know a
real extraordinary experience for us and
CableLabs is really the guiding hand
bringing new technologies to that
industry all right so some questions
have come in in the chat yes you've got
some for us yeah well before I get the
chair I got my own question oh okay all
right yeah so before the break you
mentioned that you know everybody's
looking for more speed and with this
kind of splitting is there a limitation
to the speed like I know you just
mentioned you know a 2.4 you get this
many connections or at the 5 gigahertz
you get this are we gonna see a
reduction in speed because there's more
AI is it proportional yeah or is less
speed still gonna be there even though
you've added more connectivity well this
is the interesting the interesting thing
you as we as we talk using Wi-Fi over
video the thing that impacts your video
the most is not the speed of my
connection or your connection but it's
the latency or the delay right and and
so by adding channels we're actually
like decreasing latency we're offering a
lower latency connection because there's
fewer users on that channel so this need
you know is is sort of methank literally
a group glittery object then the
marketing people put out in front of you
but when your viewers and you know you
and I know that it's actually the
latency that makes your video pixelate
right and so our focus is really
reducing latency and offering them those
those more and more channels ok very
interesting point and I love that where
we're taking a real step away from
viewers if you're noticing this we're
taking a step away from the marketing
speak like the stuff that you hear the
stuff that you read on the back of your
router box when you're standing in the
big-box store trying to pick which
router you to buy so
stepping away from all that that says
this is the fastest this is the best
this is the one with five antennas this
is the one with eight antenna right and
we're and we're saying okay well this is
what really matters to the user right so
is my skype call gonna drop is my
youtube video gonna buffer and if my
kids are using their phones and their
tablets and I've got the computer in my
laptop on my lap am I gonna have
buffering that's really what it comes
down to because I don't care about the
numbers I really just care how does it
work for me the actual so then to draw
that parallel to the highway you still
have the hundred kilometer limit for the
highway
sure but you've now got 36 lanes to work
with instead of two could you imagine so
so there's more cars yeah that can
spread out did you get you Toronto 36
lanes I could go pretty fast without
having to stop right it's an interesting
perspective yeah love it it is now I
mean as we're talking about this I mean
we're sitting here I'm hearing kind of
about the nuts and bolts of this for the
first time I'm getting excited and the
chat rooms getting excited - I've got
two people blokey and a marriage Roy
both going can I get this now what's it
gonna cost me and how much can I get
yeah like where do I throw my dollars
yet my dollar dollar bills can I just
like send those for us you know the real
catalyst to bring this to market has
been our our work in that with the
global cable providers you're right the
fifth largest cable operator in the u.s.
a company called Mediacom as one of our
customers they're using us at resorts in
areas that are that are really
struggling with with density right we're
also working with four of the top five
largest cable operators in the world to
bring our technology to market in in the
home okay and outside of the cable space
our largest customer today is the second
largest retailer in the u.s. a company
called Kroger Corporation that builds
their own access points for use in their
stores so
so uhm I it's a really exciting time for
the company oh cool so what I need to
know is where does this technology stand
from a licensing standpoint I mean we
people say why are you called Linux tech
so when you're always talking about
Windows and it's like okay well we have
a mindset here where we care about open
source we love open source we love Linux
I want to know like is there is this
something that's gonna be available to
to the open-source community let's just
put that out there I know it's a loaded
question I'll leave that with you Andrew
for us the Linux environment is
extraordinary
right there the reach and then the
number of developers available and
things it's just phenomenal and what
we've done through our work with cable
labs on the emerging dual channel Wi-Fi
standard so that's really about taking
multiple channels and terminating them
on a device to offer significantly lower
latency yeah so we've actually taken
that dual channel Wi-Fi code which was
which was you know Co innovated with
cable ads and we've released that to the
the Linux open wrt community so that's
available today that you can put on your
routers and offer a dual channel
capability okay tell me where that goes
hold on just one second and wait one for
you as well
yes
I didn't mean to interrupt but that had
to be done it's really cool so yeah you
work for us you know what's really
exciting about that standard yes it's
it's taking you the current Wi-Fi
implementation and saying you know what
you've got a primary channel which is
sort of your standard Wi-Fi Channel yeah
and then for a latency sensitive
application like your Roku or your your
your Xfinity box on your TV sure
take that data and put it off on an
uncontested Channel reduce the latency
that only becomes very very solid are we
almost almost almost touching on like a
Wi-Fi specific Channel like I'm just
throwing this out here okay I we haven't
had this discussion before is this
almost like QoS quality of service of
Wi-Fi like saying okay your Roku is
streaming video so I want to give
bandwidth to that whereas your your kids
chatting on Facebook isn't really
needing as much bandwidth so we can kind
of say QoS says let's give it mostly to
the Roku is that kind of what we're what
we're having happen but at a panel level
that's right and that's really the power
of you know the applications like dual
channel Wi-Fi yeah and the platforms
like Wi-Fi spectrum slicing like like my
house is a great example you know my my
kids are playing a fortnight or whatever
the game is we're probably probably
fortnight yeah exactly
I've got my own channel nice and
uncontained it and we've got your alarm
system our door your door alerts
everything on their own you know low
quality of service challenges they don't
use a lot of bandwidth but yeah that's
what it's really all about and that's
what new Wi-Fi spectrum slicing opens up
in applications like dual channel Wi-Fi
really take advantage of that so all I
got out of that entire statement was
there as a dad Channel
[Laughter]
with that splitting is that something
that in the back-end firmware of your
router you'll be able to see those
individual channels for your devices
we're used to that yeah right now but
are we gonna see it on a more intricate
level like is that something will
visually be able to see in the software
or is it is it happening kind of in the
backend without us seeing yeah I'm
seeing blokey as well asking in our
discord there you see that over there
asking if channels are selectable is
this still going to be the case that's
that's right so one of the things that
we've done in our line of access points
or Arab products which is also leverages
Linux is we've left it very open so the
channels are all software configurable
and you know today's version you can go
in you can select your channels we're
layering on AI applications which will
help you choose channels that are undone
contended or don't have interference
right to deliver the maximum quality of
service to the demanding variation and
you know in addition to these multiple
channels the other thing that we've
included with our Wi-Fi spectrum slicing
approach is real-time spectral
surveillance right look at the spectrum
see where the interferences deal with
that interference real-time without
interrupting your transmit and receive
wow I'm getting chills this is like well
there's so many problems I've got Andrew
we love you I mean I just have to just
plain it because I'm already dealing
with like I sit down with dd-wrt and
with my my mikrotik and I watch those
channels and I'm looking for okay well
what are my neighbors using I want to
find the channels that are that are not
currently bombarded with data transfer
transfer so that I'm not working on a
channel that is already saturated I want
to be I want to have my home Wi-Fi on a
network that on a channel that is
basically wide open yeah that's it so so
you're saying that your technology is
going to kind of monitor
that and figure it out through some kind
of brilliant technique at figuring out
which channels plural hold on to that
for a second so channels we're able to
tap into for our Wi-Fi that's right
that's right yeah he's just like Mike
drop I had no idea where this interview
was going folks but now I'm like okay so
the question now becomes Andrew like
okay I've got my routers I've already
invested in my hardware where does it go
from here how do I get this can it is
this something that I have to buy new
hardware for do I need to recreate my
business infrastructure my own
infrastructure please give me some
information on that that's actually
based hardware for that for applications
like dual channel Wi-Fi and the emerging
dual channel Wi-Fi standard there are
some devices which which can support
dual channel in 2.4 and 5k so they can
spread they may have to separate them
come in it's still you know it really
shows the direction that Wi-Fi is going
for sure so is there hardware that we
should be specifically looking at to be
able to implement your technique or is
there somewhere we can go to find out
more information where we can shop for
devices that are going to be supporting
this particular method check out each
water wireless comm all right that's you
dual channel Wi-Fi application yeah and
Wi-Fi spectrum slicing to learn more
about that and a great resource is the
the cable labs website under dual
channel Wi-Fi so there's some great
information there on the benefits and
the techniques for doing that
okay and you can actually go to github
and you can download the open wrt
software okay what I'm gonna get you dad
is fantastic okay open wrt is a router
firmware you can install on your
existing router so Andrew what I want
you to do is just after the show I want
you to private message me that link and
what I'm gonna do for you viewers is if
you're watching this on demand if you're
watching this on cable TV it's okay just
go to our website category 5 T dot TV
you'll find episode number 624 and I'm
gonna have that link there if you're
watching this on demand if you're
watching this on youtube or wherever you
are just check below in the description
I'm gonna have that link for you so
Andrew I'm gonna share that github link
so that people can get ahold of that
open wrt as well how soon is so open wrt
is available now it sounds like how soon
are we going to see this technology
available basically on a grand scale
Wireless is really into licensed Wi-Fi
spectrum slicing because some of the big
silicon manufacture some Qualcomm
Broadcom etc yep and that will bring
that the mass scale that all of you
responsi Oh fantastic well Andrew thank
you so very much for your time a
reiteration that the website to go to is
Edgewater wireless comm links are below
and find out more information about that
I love where you're going with this
technology and I need to get this in my
home oh yeah studio yes that would be
probably a good idea Andrew thank you so
much for being with us here this week
it's been a pleasure
absolutely thank you very much for
having me Cheers we've got a head over
to the newsroom Sasha if you're ready
I'm gonna throw it over to you alright
he's recovering this week in the
category 5 TV newsroom the co-founder
and chief executive of Twitter had his
own account on the service briefly taken
over by hackers Microsoft has announced
that it's bringing its exFAT filesystem
support to the Linux kernel and the
licensing the contributed code under GPL
version 2 the rash of ransomware
infiltration continues with 13 new
victims most of them schools and a
watchdog has penalized the local
authority for trialing facial
recognition on a found high school
students in Sweden to keep track of
their attendance these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
space
Linux bias I'm satiric mint in here the
top stories were following this week the
co-founder and chief executive of
Twitter had his own accounts on the
service briefly taken over by hackers
a group referring to itself as the
chuckling squad said that it was behind
the breach of the Jack Dorsey's account
the profile which has more than four
million followers tweeted out a flurry
of highly offensive and racist remarks
for about 15 minutes
Twitter says its own systems were not
compromised
instead they blame an unnamed phone
service provider saying quote the phone
number associated with the account was
compromised due to a security oversight
by the mobile provider this allowed an
unauthorized person to compose and send
tweets via text message from the phone
number that issue is now resolved and
quote a source at the company confirmed
that the hacker had used a technique
known as sim swapping or SIM jacking in
order to control mr. Dorsey's account
this isn't the first sim swapping
account we've reported on you may
remember several months ago when we
talked about how an AT&amp;T allowed an
attacker to steal Bitcoin sim swapping
itself is most often a social
engineering attack on its onset it
allows an existing phone number in this
case one associated with mr. dorsey's
account to be transferred to a new SIM
card it's usually after the attackers
trick or bribe customer support staff at
a mobile provider to make the switch in
this case by taking control of the
number the attackers were able to post
tweets via text message directly onto
mr. Dorsey's Twitter account while the
security lapse appears to have happened
outside the company it is still an
embarrassing incident for Twitter hmm I
mean I get that it's kind of an
embarrassing thing for Twitter but at
the same time it's not their fault so
they say I'm like okay well that was
some good brandy but I mean like it does
happen I mean at the end of the day that
is a vulnerable vulnerability within
your cell phone system I mean
does happen right the time we may not
realize that
should we just assume that everybody who
tweets obnoxiously unrealistic and
ridiculous tweets probably have been
since popped and they're not actually
speaking on their own finding any
fingers
not that we're pointing anything like as
a company like Twitter yeah how do you
protect against something like the only
way you I mean you don't know if SMS
messaging well but not only that is
maybe something built into the account
where it's like oh we're detecting
suddenly a change in your IP address
like I don't know it's not really
possible though is it Jeff with will if
you send you a different phone you'd
have a different IP yeah but you'd have
a different IP if you traveled from this
end of Bari to the other end of Bari but
different cell that's not connected to
Wi-Fi you still have your IP but this is
SMS yeah okay lets rule out IP
addressing so not really the issue
because it's not internet-based so it's
not that's a very gender net protocol
you just have to just never let your
phone out of your sight it doesn't
matter it wasn't out of a sight so
here's the thing as somebody new mister
Dorsey's phone number right so this was
this an inside job i if I wanted to hack
his account I don't know his personal
cell phone number do you it's does hard
this is yeah but this is the co-founder
of Twitter right so think about that for
a sec have his contact how many times
have we had data breaches of contact
information all the contact lists of is
that it is a data breach is it like his
LinkedIn account was compromised who
knows but it wouldn't surprise me I mean
I'm sure my cell phone numbers out there
it's like nobody needs my cell phone if
anyone would like to tweet as Jeff
Weston just check the data banks on
exactly yeah I mean it's it's
unfortunate that it happened but at the
same time I'm going at least it wasn't a
security breach it wasn't something that
shocks the foundation of Twitter where
people like oh my gosh but doesn't it I
mean doesn't it bring us back to okay
sim swapping is a very serious issue and
we talked about more you remember the
conversation you mentioned it yeah AT&amp;T
where
somebody walked in so a hacker or we
used to call them frackers so do you
remember back in the day when we were
frackers where we would send a post a
piece of mail a piece of postage to
somebody but we would put their address
in the from address and then not include
postage so then of course the post
office would then send it back to who it
was from because there was insufficient
postage right the from was actually the
person we're sending it to and that is
what we called fracking and and you know
that happened with payphones where we
had devices that you could make a
certain tone and make your phone calls
for free at a payphone like that was
fracking so now is this the modern
equivalent of fracking where we can walk
into AT&amp;T and say my name is sasha
Rickman and my phone number is
such-and-such and I lost my phone so I
need you to give me a new sim right so
then this new SIM card now goes in my
phone and now I can dial I can
authenticate I can two-factor
authenticate against sash's accounts
yeah because I am her phone number so I
can receive SMS that's some scary stuff
think about that as you think about what
kind of two-factor authentication you
have on your accounts and I think
somebody could do that and it's only if
the cell provider falls for that social
engineering attack but the fact is we
talked about 80 how they're not
adequately training their workers to be
prepared for social engineering so is
there a benefit to having profile photos
for customer service reps for stuff like
that it's like hey you've got a cell
phone by the way we've got a we want to
put a picture on file so nobody else can
come in and say absolute sure like bank
security maybe you should have to have
your bank know cuz I used to walk into
the bank and withdraw money as my
brother I'm sorry
I actually I works in a bank twins know
as long as you know enough to be able to
answer those security questions you can
do it since that point now you bring in
your card you put it into the reader and
you plop in the pin yeah that's a little
bit better mm-hmm but it can all be
compromised so do we need do we almost
need and this is a rhetorical but do we
need to factor authentication on our two
factor authentication do we need to have
thumb prints in order to authenticate
against our two-factor authentication
right do we need to have that added
feature of okay well your phone okay you
lost your sim no problem your phone was
set up with fingerprint identification
can we have your fingerprint please
right like can that be you can but I
would if I lost my scent right and if a
hacker came in and said I'm Robbie
Ferguson and I need a new SIM for my
phone well if they don't have my
fingerprint wouldn't I like that peace
of mind to know that they cannot
regenerate a new SIM card I just wonder
if what we're dealing with at that point
is people's heightened level of
suspicion where they're like oh I'm not
giving my fingerprints to AT&amp;T who knows
what they're gonna do with it but I
understand sure that would work as a
security measure but there's also that
flip side of that Sasha and I know you
want to move on that's my way of saying
I want to move on there's that flip side
of it that says well I if I if I if I am
providing my identification well they
can't authenticate as me right I don't
want them to be able to authenticate as
me and and if they do I don't want them
to be able to compromise my accounts is
the information you're providing to AT&amp;T
being stored properly and in a certain
way
yeah exactly I just so many questions
you know it stands I mean even in this
scenario it's tied down
we are not okay that's what I wear
that's what I kind of felt like I wanted
yes thank you Jeff we're not gonna solve
this and just is that at Catholics if we
fix human error right here on the show
we could've a check so as long as the
cellphone provider I think this is where
Jeff would go with this right as long as
the cell phone provider gives their
staff the capability the authority to be
able to sim swap yep we have a security
breach possibility always okay so when
we think about that so as long as that
switch to robot customer service reps
know but if they're if they if those
staff members that are working in a mall
kiosk have the capability to sim swap
sashes phone to me for a minimum wage
yeah yeah there's a problem with that
maybe it's not an education thing but
maybe it's in a what level of security
should certain levels of staff have
maybe is that the issue and what level
of accountability because I mean well
there is none when you're a minimum wage
I mean oh sorry you know fire me I'll
move on to the next kiosk right exactly
ah okay okay speaking of moving on sorry
Sasha sorry about that
Microsoft has announced that it's
bringing its exFAT file system support
to the Linux kernel and licensing the
contributed code under GPL version to
Microsoft's exFAT file system is
prevalent throughout a lot of modern
technology regardless of whether you or
your device use the Windows operating
system this simple but proprietary and
patented file system was created by
Microsoft for use primarily in flash
memory products back in 2006
since then the format has seen colossal
adoption throughout the electronics
industry with USB drivers SD cards
digital cameras and mp3 players among
the many many devices that make use of
it however to use the file system that
means paying Microsoft a fee until
now it's long been possible to read
write manage edit resize and format
exFAT partitions and file systems on
linux distros thanks to source efforts
like the fuse based exFAT but patent
issues have prevented these workaround
solutions from shipping as part of the
regular linux kernel out of the box
ready to go but now Microsoft is lifting
the restrictions and releasing the code
that will allow exFAT to be included in
the kernel with no fees and nobody
getting sued okay I love this you know
why why my video recorder for
screencasting doesn't support exFAT for
this very reason because the patents
right so now we're gonna see a
transition and the technology that says
ok well now that it's freely available
on the Linux kernel and most of these
devices let's be honest are powered by
Linux we may not realize even if you're
a Windows user you may not realize that
your your phone and and many of your
devices in your household are Linux
based so this now says okay well that
recorder that records to my disk USB
flash drive when I do screencast can
support exFAT yep for free yes I don't
hold new world
Microsoft is finally supporting the open
source
I wondered how this was gonna go because
Microsoft's professed several years ago
we had this discussion about how they
were going to be becoming more and more
open-source centric yes they did so I
mean it would be difficult for them to
say we've got github but we're not in
favor of open source turn it all off
password protect the whole bit yeah
which is an interesting purchase in and
of itself but now they have access to
the world's source code yes in such a
way that you know they can adopt that
into their own codebase sure yes right
the rash of ransomware infiltration
continues with 13 new victims
most of them schools yes that's right as
investigations into the recent
coordinated ransomware
attack against local governments in
Texas continues thirteen new victims of
ransomware attacks have been publicly
identified beside schools the victims
also include in Indiana County a hospice
in California in California a newspaper
in watered in New York the ransomware
involved in the Texas attacks which hit
22 local level government entities has
not yet been identified multiple sources
have suggested that the Texas attacker
gained access through a managed service
provider that the local government had
all in common but that it has not yet
that has not yet been confirmed by state
officials in the case of this latest
batch of attacks Rio Grande somwhere has
been identified as the malware used on
at least three occasions the Rockville
Center School District initially
received a ransom demand of 176 thousand
dollars the district's insurance company
negotiated with the ransomware operator
reducing the payout to eighty eight
thousand dollars and the school district
paid a deductible of ten thousand
dollars there's no word on whether other
victims have paid the ransom yet as new
attacks become public it's worth
remembering the fallout from such
attacks can add up quickly in terms of
dollars and requires a lengthy recovery
period the leadership of Baltimore City
hit by a ransom attack in may recently
announced that six million dollars of
the money needed to cover the city's
more than 10 million dollars ransomware
cleanup operation would be pulled from
funds earmarked for upkeep of city parks
and public facilities so far the Robin
Hood ransomware cost the city over eight
million dollars in lost revenue and
interest on deferred revenue Baltimore
has also been considering a contract for
20 million dollars of cyber liability
insurance plan yep exactly yeah what are
you angry Jeff are you angry Baltimore
residents what bothers take your kids to
the park and and as the swing hangs from
one chain
ask yourself was this worth it like I'd
be the whole story just kind of grinds
my gears button that last little
statement that they're thinking of
buying twenty million dollars in
cybersecurity insurance bass staff and
improper backups and everything good 20
million get them like this is where I
want to throw my pen and walk off yeah
yeah you know what see you jack have a
great night
Baltimore look at what you've done we've
lost a great co-host yeah I can't I
can't say enough okay all y'all just
need to watch the show you just why are
you doing these things in such a way
that will affect like not only you and
the services but then the people beyond
a hospice like this now do obviously
these aren't targeted attacks but it
just it blows my mind we'll call them
targeted they will right then when they
get the FBI involved in the insurance
companies they'll call it targeted but I
think to myself like school its
stupidity is one of those yeah what
really jabs my butt about this Jeff is
it seems apparent I mean if I'm gonna
pay eighty eight thousand dollars to a
ransomware individual or group so this
is a group that just simply installed a
program that encrypted their files if
I'm gonna pay eighty eight thousand
dollars how much do you want to bet I
didn't spend $5,000 on my backup that
year yep right okay
so think about that these are the very
folks that are running our government
and we have a really serious miss
allocation of tax dollars again going
back to you know news stories just a few
minutes ago that's human error like I
feel like when it comes to proper IT
support and cybersecurity and malware
protection and everything in but
yeah there's that element of you just
didn't do it
come on it and it's tough I'm not gonna
come down hard on the IT folks because
I'm NIT and I know they've got a budget
like no but they also can only make
recommendations Jeff yeah and it takes
going through bureaucracy through
multiple levels in order to get approval
for something that we're stressing needs
to happen now look 10 years ago now yeah
wake up people so when they pay the
ransom there's still a risk for future
attacks oh sure they are did we did we
inoculate the issue did we patch the
systems with that fee no CIT crew still
has to take care of the cleanup still
has to what are we gonna do pay eighty
eight thousand dollars and trust the
hackers not to hack again right no the
backdoors are still there exactly at
that point all they've done is given you
a key for eighty eight thousand dollars
here's your decryption key 256 bits are
jaxxed right yeah oh of course it does
yeah these these aren't our average and
the sad thing is I'll say it's not your
normal good guy but it's sad thing is a
lot of cases these are teenage kids that
just simply don't know any better and
they just made eighty eight thousand
dollars off the government and they're
thinking oh my gosh
payload yeah I figured out I figured out
a way to make tons of cash and then
they'll go to jail
eventually when they're 26 years old and
and find themselves at the mercy of the
government and not understand whoa they
don't understand the lives they affected
yeah and it's not fair to them it's not
fair like kids growing up and when I was
a kid I was a hacker and doing I was
doing malicious things but not anything
damaging I didn't ever do anything that
couldn't be undone and I didn't charge
anyone a fee to undo it but I still had
to have a stern talking-to oh sure I
have
stern talking-to at school and as kids
are growing up now I mean they're way
more advanced than I was in my age
because technology is there from the
moment they're born right so this is a
dangerous thing that they're setting by
hey let's pay eighty eight thousand
dollars no pay your IT department to
give you proper backups proper
encryption turn off RDP you idiots lock
down your firewalls great yeah comment
below
look just guess what we have more news
oh please tell me it's good news Sasha
yeah a watchdog has penalized the local
recognition on high school students in
Sweden to keep track of attendance the
Swedish a Data Protection Authority or
DPA find the skele
guilty Municipality the equivalent of
about twenty thousand dollars us for
ignoring a privacy law the trial
involved tracking 22 students over three
weeks in detecting when each pupil
entered a classroom this is the first
time that Sweden has ever issued a fine
under the GDP are the general data
protection regulation which came into
force last year classes facial images
and other biometric information as being
a special category of data with added
restrictions on its use the DPA
indicated that the find would have been
bigger had the trial been longer
according to technology magazine
computers Sweden Swedish authorities
decided to investigate after reading
media reports of Andrew stops High
School's trial the local authority told
the Swedish state broadcaster SVT an
eider in February that teachers had been
spending 17,000 hours a year reporting
attendance and the authority had decided
to see whether facial recognition
technology could speed up the process
the trial which took place in autumn of
2018 had been so successful that the
local authority was considering
extending it although the school secured
parents consents to monitor the students
the regulator did not feel that it was
legally adequate reason to collect such
sensitive personal data it said that
there was a less intrusive ways that
their attendance could have been
detected without involving a camera
surveillance as a result the DPA found
that scallop teased the local authority
had unlawfully possessed sensitive
biometric data and failed to complete an
adequate impact assessment which would
have included consulting the regulator
and gaining prior approval before
starting the trial okay so they're not
saying they can't do it they're saying
that they didn't get the proper okay
part of it like that's some of the stuff
they could have done but like why not
just go to the good old trying trisystem
of swipe cards or rfid like it can
always be it can always be put it
forward right fair enough but I mean
I've got one of these and if it was a
yeah but I'll take yours and pretend
that you were at school today sure
there's there's gonna be some
manipulation but at least they're not
causing problems I mean if if my school
said or my kids school sent home a
letter that says we're gonna be using
facial recognition to track your kids
attendance yeah I probably blow a gasket
you don't say how much does the teacher
make these days well let's say by the
hour let's look at the hourly is it
teachers 26 26 bucks an hour no it's
gotta be more than that 32
well 37 dollars an hour I will give you
the job for 37 bucks an hour they have
eight weeks unpaid in the year that I oh
my gosh we're getting too technical okay
teachers comment below how much should
you make and how much do you make an
hour let's just say can we say 28 bucks
an hour yes just as a base rate for
somebody starting out and if you get
paid less than that you need to talk to
your employer 17,000 hours of $28 per
hour is four hundred and seventy six
thousand dollars u.s. yeah at 28 bucks
an hour so you're telling me oh they
probably get paid more than that so with
the amount of time that these teachers
are spending simply saying hey Jeff are
you here hey Jeff hey Jeff are you here
come on answer me dude but why see if
facial recognition would have been a lot
quicker yeah would a save me time and
would have saved my school board and my
taxpaying citizens five hundred thousand
US dollars this year so think about that
in comparison with the privacy issue of
parents who say like you say I have a
problem with a computer knowing that my
kid is at school yep but the computer
knows anyways whether my teacher tells
the computer or not I still think
there's other ways rather than having to
go with facial recognition but hear me
Jeff the computer knows anyways as soon
as the teacher says yeah Jeff finally
answered the question I just made
another five hundred thousand dollars
right
and so I checked the box and I sent it
to the computer and now the computer
knows that you're there anyways right so
the automated calling system can call
home if you aren't exactly that's
exactly how it works the end of the day
sorry Jeff was truant okay so now you've
got you heard that many times actually
sorry I didn't mean to bring that back
to me with that parents okay if your
parents are watching they that just
really brought them back to but I mean
like how many times air your twins twins
go to the same school there's identity
challenges that happen admit it
admit it that's happening anyways with
the teachers sure have you never be each
absolutely be good
they change vacation they're identical
twins guarantee one had one that said
bath and one had one that's a colleague
you know it's funny I've yet to meet a
set of identical twins that's don't in
some way look different when they're
like four years old sure right they look
similar I don't think this is bad idea I
I know that the world is going that way
so like well that's not I get that it's
going that way I mean how long have we
had facial recognition and casinos like
I get it you know the difference is
we're talking adults versus children
okay that's fair like I don't care
though it's the fact that a parent can
make an improper decision with the
information that has been supplied about
their child like I struggle with it I
understand that but I still feel that we
as a society have to move on from our
old ways in that I still believe that
whether it's a human that says sash's in
class today right or a computer that
says Sascha's in class today the same
algorithms the same systems are in place
to notify mom and dad whether you were
truant or not it's still the same system
it's just a different detection
mechanism that can save our tax paying
citizens five hundred thousand dollars a
year fingerprints as precious as facial
recognition probably I would say scan
your fingerprint sure maybe that's the
answer is that fair same hair that's
what as far as the biometric yeah it
probably is where you put your whole
hand on the reader and then you clock in
your own copy awesome you're an adult my
kids uh if my kids get that in their
school I'm sending the school in suits
with sunglasses I'm dead serious
but that they wouldn't have fingerprints
oh yes right and I'm black nice nicely
played sir okay let's take a quick look
at the cryptocurrency market now there
is one coin that has been holding so
steady over the past several weeks and
it's just mind-boggling how it can be
holding so steady no it's not Facebook
Libre is still trading at zero dollars
because it's not even trading yet we're
still waiting for it it's gonna be a
positive weekly chef sash I made that
comment last week it's a spoof Libre
when it hits it's going up you know it's
going up because right now it's zero
point zero zero Fiat
what I don't want to be a coin and I saw
a kiosk an ATM that allows me to buy
okay I want but not in the mall I walked
into a convenience store and I said
Bitcoin ATM and the guy looked at me and
he said yep
I bought this store because I bought a
single Bitcoin when they were down and I
sold it when they were up and now I own
this convenience store how much did it
cost you one yeah nothing like virtually
nothing so this this gentleman bought
this convenience store that I'm standing
in and so by his own like realization
that hey this is where the future is he
has an ATM in the convenience store that
only sells there's a bunch of them in
Toronto so deed so we're gonna take a
look at that I'm gonna go in with my
inconspicuous filming glasses balance
and take a look at that I don't really
know how it works yet Jeff okay but
we're gonna take a look Bitcoin is up
well kind of back up where was a couple
of weeks ago but at ten thousand six
hundred and fifteen dollars and ninety
three cents gaining 936 nine hundred
thirty nine dollars and sixty-five cents
us over the past week
litecoin is holding pretty steady at 67
dollars and 59 cents fiat USD aetherium
is at 175 seventy and things are really
holding about where they were last week
in the narrow at 72 47 I mean the
difference is only 34 cents it's not
really anything significant unless you
own a lot of them Scalla
which is torque which is stellite is at
zero point six six ten thousandth of a
cent so it's on its way back up to where
it was it was doing quite well as wasn't
it worse I think
patents and trademarks and they forgot
to check
that's gonna hurt the corn I think it
really did it dropped it dropped last
week Jeff yeah down to zero point four
five ten thousandth of a cent but it
went back up again to 0.66 this week so
it's working its way back up and it's
already exceeded and in fact doubled
that of the turtle coin turtle coin is
pretty steady yeah I mean it did lose
it's the only loser this week at a zero
point three nine ten thousandth of a
cent but again I mean Scala and turtle
coin are both micro coins so if you want
to get involved in cryptocurrency mining
it's a great way to get involved because
it doesn't really cost you anything I do
it on a PI to get yeah you do it on a
Raspberry Pi it like nine hashes a
second but I mean you still are building
up your turtle core right so it happens
and and so that's the way to do it but
do remember if you are going to crypto
minor if you're gonna purchase I mean we
talked about this ATM at the convenience
store if you're gonna buy Bitcoin you're
gonna invest in cryptocurrency remember
that the market never closes and it's
always volatile so it's always changing
you could go to bed at night thinking no
I'm doing really good bitcoins up and
the next day it is down because it never
ever closes it's not like you're Stock
Exchange folks so be mindful that you
know our recommendation here at category
five technology TV is to only invest
only spend what you can afford to lose
that's the only way to play invest money
you don't want any longer you're just
throwing in the wind with us yeah you
can give it to us that's that's fine too
we should add that should we add that to
the cryptocurrency okay remember
children the cryptocurrency market never
closes it's always volatile and you can
donate to us instead community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson right I'm Jeff Weston
hey thanks for being here with us
tonight now we're trying to put a real
focus
on the linux terminal and tonight we're
gonna be showing you how to travel
through time in debian linux stick
around welcome back to category five
technology TV it's time to do some
time-traveling oh I love you know what
it could you imagine time-travel is here
we finally have access I would tell
myself Knology working out 25 years ago
go back in time and that's what you
would tell yeah working yeah yep okay
that's that's that's good that's good
that's fantastic this could be here
that's your only regret then you're
basically like the happiest guy alive
which is fantastic yeah that's really
good okay so what we're looking at this
week is time travel through Debian Linux
so have you ever had a scenario where
you're like I just wish Debian wheezy
was still available or new PHP 5.3 was
still available or any of these old
packages because what happens is we we
love Debian's
apt you know apt-get yes and the ability
to install new packages and do an apt
update and then an apt upgrade and all
of a sudden your system is up and
running with the latest and greatest
right but what happened to the old stuff
we're gone it's gone what happens if you
need it what if you have some kind of
technology or product or program that
requires that old software and then
you're in this bind where now it's not
available it's gone especially if you're
in a scenario where let's say you had a
piece of software developed custom
software is a great example yes we'll
pay a development company to build
software for us it might cost us $20,000
and then the technology moves on yeah it
was built on debian chassis let's say as
the scenario
and then we went through upgrade after
upgrade and now here we are Debbie and
Buster is stable ladies and gentlemen
we're on Debian 10 and now our software
that we paid $20,000 for is no longer
compatible and we can't install it we
can't run it it no longer works so we
have this real bind where hey I can't
run the software I really need to run
the software why wouldn't you just go
find an old like software package
wouldn't that be just great but there's
dependencies Jeff Yeah right like when
you install anything on Debian there's
gonna be things that it depends on in
order to install in order to be able to
function correctly yeah right so a good
example just pulled out your old CD no
it's not it's not at all like that and
and fact is maybe there's a scenario
where we have an old server maybe I've
got an old server and I want to move
things into a virtualization hypervisor
because I know that that old server is
on its way out or it's using too much
hydro or electricity for those American
viewers we call high electricity hydro
here in Canada right I don't know why
it's water water because we started
water generators hydroelectric and so we
stuck with it we've just never you know
the more you know see we learn something
here tonight so we can end the show on
that now we'll be playing that after the
show so what happens in that can in that
scenario so yeah I want to tell you a
little bit about a feature of Debian
that you may not have heard of its
called snapshots what we've heard of
snapshots yeah yeah we've heard of
snapshots did you know that Debian's
repositories have snapshots and they
have since 2005 so if you want to go
back in time or you want to lock your
repositories on your distribution to a
certain point in time you can use
snapshots I had no case law show you
that side okay see how she's like
driving the conversation all right let's
general let's jump
if she's like its winding down this is
the end of the show let's make it happen
Robbie okay so I'm gonna jump in I'm
going to type sudo su and it's prompting
me for my password what is it what's so
funny Sasha oh no but I've heard about
it I heard about the great password
reveal 2019 oh look I entered my
password alright so I'm gonna go into CD
slash etc' slash apt and let's nano
sources dot list okay my sources dot
list is pretty much empty there's a
commented out cd-rom drive so that means
that there is a folder called sources
dot list dot D and in that folder and
everyone has this on Debian now III
should give you this one little caveat
I'm not actually on Linux Mint so this
is an Ubuntu derivative but Ubuntu is
based on Debian so I'm still able to
demonstrate this but this demonstration
should really only be run on Debian
Linux like a true Debian system so now
I'm gonna create a new package list so
I'm gonna go Nano and I'm gonna call
this let's call it snapshot snap shot
dot lists have to end with dot Li st and
with that ready to go I'm gonna jump
into my web browser and I'm gonna head
on over to a wonderful website you ready
for this nice and easy
snapshot dot Debian dot org and jump
onto there so here we are at the Debian
snapshot repository we all know about
repositories but this is the snapshot
where every six hours
Debian since 2005 has been taking
snapshots of the existing repository so
hey yeah exactly so you need to and
deduplication is their friend I'll tell
you what but if you need to let's say
you've got software that you want to
virtualize you want to put it on a
virtual appliance well hey set a
snapshot as the repository and it will
never progress beyond that point and
will never you never have to fear it
upgrade
beyond that point it's always gonna be
locked down to that very point in time
so let's jump over here so I'm gonna go
to slash archive slash Debian and you'll
see all the dates 2005 all the way up to
2019 and September so let's say I want
to go back let's say because I'm on
Buster right let's pretend I want to
jump back to oh I apologize there we are
with the right screen I'm going to go
back to January so 2019 can you folks
see that I'll zoom in just a little bit
on my browser with ctrl + 2000 1901 so
if I wanted to lock into January of this
year now it gives me all the snapshots
for that like by date look at this folks
so I can actually go back to January 1st
at 2:59 a.m. I can go back to January
1st at 8:56 a.m. I can go back to any of
these times at snapshot Debian org so
let's say let's just pretend vicariously
we're gonna choose 2019 Oh 106 at 2100
hours ok that's great that's what I'm
gonna choose so I've just clicked on it
now it's just a bunch of gibberish
whatever copy the address line ok that's
going to give me the repository and that
is date stamped to the one that I chose
which is January 6 2019 you can go back
remember you can go back to 20 2005
March okay you can go all the way back
to 2005 now in that file that I created
sources list dot D in / et Cie / app to
see the you guys see the address bar I'm
just gonna bring it down just a little
bit so that you can see that beautiful
let's see boom there it is so that's the
location / e.t.c slash apt / sources dot
list D I've created a new file called
snapshot dot list and I'm gonna go Deb
because I want to specify that this is a
Debian repository and I'm gonna paste
what I just copied to my clipboard
which is the snapshot of January 6th and
then Buster main that could be stretch
that could be whatever is available on
that
you couldn't go back to Jessie with this
date because Jessie didn't exist it was
already eol at that point but you can go
back further in the date stamps in order
to be able to get Jessie repositories
hold on to that thought for a second as
you think about how do I take an old
Jessie server and upgrade it to Buster
we use a snapshot repository so that we
can do a dist upgrade of Jessie to the
very latest
Jessie repository before it was
cancelled right before it went to Yoel
right then we can go to whatever we need
like Weezy stretch Jess Weezy stretch
buster right all the way up right so so
we can do that by using this snapshot in
order to get there
so with that set so I pasted that in and
going Buster main or I can go stretch
main whatever it is that I'm going to be
so understand repositories I'm not
getting too far into that but this is
the distro that I'm using so in my case
it is in fact stretch I could use Buster
if I wanted to and then write out the
file with ctrl o because I've got nano
open and then ctrl X to exit and now apt
update and you're gonna see that it's
actually gonna hit that new repository I
go through all these extra repositories
I have for cinelerra and it will
actually get the repository for the the
snapshot but do you notice for that
snapshots Asha what do you see snapshot
this is it's not signed Oh what does
that mean well I don't actually have the
GPG key so everything is secure but I
need a GPG key in order to be able to
synchronize that so so I need to observe
that in this particular case I need to
notice that hey there's no key available
for this pup key 8b for a ad see that
that big long thing so what I want to do
I'm gonna copy that to my clipboard
I'm gonna type this command so as root
so notice I am already root or you can
use sudo we can type apt - key adv -
key server space he I'm gonna usually
boon to Sookie server dot ubuntu.com it
can be any key server that you like - -
are ecv - Keys received keys and then
paste so with that I'm gonna paste that
key number okay
and hit enter and now if all goes well
it's gonna grab that key from the Ubuntu
key server key server dot ubuntu.com
which is just an apt way of
authenticating the apt repository and
should go through just fine here we go
wait for it folks there we go
processed and imported I'm gonna just
move my screen up again because I know
it's getting cut off just a little bit
there for you there we are so processed
imported and good to go so now if I type
app update now I'm not going to get that
error message anymore it's gonna grab
the repository from the snapshot and
we're gonna be locked into that
particular date which is January 6 2019
here we go one of these days I'm gonna
delete that cinelerra it always takes a
while there you go see that it's going
through the the new repository for the
archive of 20 1901 oh six and there we
go
so one final thought so now it's saying
that there's some some extra files
available so one final thought is
remember I've now added a new repository
for that date stamp however I still have
the old repositories active so I do need
to observe and this is just simple apt
knowledge I need to observe the fact
that I have other repositories already
active here and I need to probably
remove some of these which may conflict
okay if you're gonna lock it down
completely you may want to remove all of
your repositories and simply stick with
that snapshot now this is obviously for
debian but to the other repositories of
them will remember i'm on i'm on linux
mint which is a debian derivative
because it's a derivative of Ubuntu
Ubuntu is a derivative
am i talking sense I'm I'm I know it but
I'm free if there's a hierarchy there's
Debian yes okay and below Debian is
Ubuntu yep all right Ubuntu is using
Debian
as it's based that's what it's based on
so Ubuntu is essentially Debian with a
bunch of stuff added and cleaned up and
right moved around
okay so then anything that's based on
Ubuntu is like Linux Mint and various
other Linux distributions that are based
on Ubuntu right well they're still based
on Debian right so inevitably you could
be careful keep a backup because you
might break things but in this scenario
they're fairly compatible because it's
all Debian based it's all apt-get it's
all repository based you can break
things because Ubuntu canonical may add
things that really improve the
experience for users or make it
compatible with your architecture for
example so you can break things but in
the case of Debian pure like Debian
itself from Debian org this process will
allow you to lock it down at a certain
date so I can set my repository to that
snapshot date right and now I can do an
apt upgrade and it will upgrade to what
- now no it'll upgrade to January 6th
correct and it will lock it there so it
will never go beyond that as long as I
don't have any other repositories that
have newer versions exactly yeah yeah
exactly so that is snapshot dot Debian
dot org very simple to use and setup
especially once you've got a slight
grasp on the app architecture the way
that apt-get works and that is a
fantastic feature that's going to help
you out as you especially I love the
idea of migrating old servers to newer
platforms being able to move from Jesse
to Buster seamlessly
because remember Jesse's gone jesse is
AOL so you can't do a disk upgrade
anymore but you can't you can you can by
using a snapshot so as Jesse really yuo
is
is it it's like it's 2009 thank you
well this has been a lot of fun Sasha
send us away yes if you have enjoyed the
show please stand with us in pitch in as
little or as much as you can through our
patreon every person who becomes a
patron helps us tremendously it helps us
grow and you get some super awesome
perks along the way you can sign up
today at patreon.com slash category-five
nice and I want to remind you as well
before we wrap up don't forget to
subscribe to us on YouTube we are on
there as category-five technology TV for
the full-length episodes or if you want
just the snippets like the little
bite-sized pieces
you can go Linux tech show but I would
encourage you to subscribe to both yes
and that's because you want to receive
those notifications when we're live as
well as when we post new videos whether
you tuned in every single week or not
it's nice to get those notifications so
you know oh look category five
technology TV is live let's go there and
I will say the live show it's kind of
really what makes this so much more
we'll see you know that don't tell them
that the patrons you know that the
patrons know that because they have
access to watch it on demand that's
right yes but the live show has but you
want them do we ever make mistakes and
edit them out never never do we ever
have a chance behind the scenes super no
never but if you're a patron then you
know then you know because you have
access to that see the odd time our
little bloopers do make it on for those
little Clips never and every once in a
while I watch those just to kind of go
back and go ah that's so much fun yes
the live experiences is fun oh yes
because the news would be silent without
you well thanks for being here everybody
have a fantastic week don't forget to
check out our website category five dot
TV and we'll see you next time
[Applause]
