covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias github announced last week
that all of its core features are now
available for free to all users that
means unlimited private repositories
with unlimited collaborations for all
including teams that use the service for
commercial projects as well as up to
2,000 minutes per month a free access to
github actions the company's automation
and CI CD platform teams that want more
advanced features like code owners or
enterprise features like saml support
will still have to upgrade to a pay plan
at this time but the pricing for those
plans has been slashed in half the
company has always taking a freemium
approach to its pricing model but since
its acquisition by Microsoft it started
to expand the number of features in its
free accounts github CEO Matt Friedman
stressed that this move had been long on
the roadmap and it isn't a limited
promotion motivated by the current Kovan
19 crisis he says this is something we
plan to do and have wanted to do for a
long time since we essentially did the
acquisition and now getting to this
point to do it took until now until it
became a high priority
[Music]
