it's finally coffee break April 8 2020
did I get the date right yeah yeah all
right hey everybody
nice to see you lost a normal day before
Easter I know and I said it's finally
coffee break and I really meant it like
my coffee my first pot of coffee for the
day just finished brewing it's been a
mad morning here and been on the phone
constantly and I got my my PHP mailer
sent 1,500 emails so I'm be proud of
that worked real well we're going real
well for a little minute there I was
saying imagining you're going to tell us
that you've got your first year PhD this
morning yeah yeah you yeah you remember
my friend who had the Large Array there
he might you join us today
oh very good very good have you taken
any phone calls recently yeah I got a
phone call yesterday I'm going to my
parents for a little break you're gonna
go for dinner in the middle middle of a
global pandemic yeah yeah it seats my
parents on there so they invited me and
they stay alone so I'd be saying no I'd
be saying no I leave groceries on my
mum's doorstep and that's as far as I'll
go what they glad today will be I are
going on that wiggly and the Gwen Paige
and Georgia where the problem I go
there's my look like they on the talk
show the real support in organize
something allegedly when are you doing
well I see you're still with us even
though you didn't think you were gonna
be with us this week here it is your day
my day built it right then you know you
don't know
if then stop it ah but I literally it'd
be like when Brady cried to get some
movement in that direction so I got cha
like an AB from the equipment I gonna
save me you know we do a mother they
were game buddy jr. you know the one
with the father with a big mouth should
say that made a bike but the best bit
was Bobby you're like this I can already
talk to him on the phone my voice was
sighted all over the place you know his
father's got very loud for its pitch as
they left I said oh we try to push like
you they took our very good Jojo very
white they Latorre authority they all
devoted and I've say something will be a
Hogan or it appeared I've quite the
problem go to God when you know whatever
it comes I hope they get you all sorted
out and we'll be thinking of you on the
day when you're not here we'll know yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah Bobby and all of the
Julian and that to the poetry speaking
of phone calls I got a phone call today
it was some I didn't recognize the
number and and he asked me by name and
he wondered and he said that yeah it
turned out that his calling from
Norway's by for the biggest power
company wondering if I had did work for
hire he had there seen my personal
website and he liked it so much that he
wondered if I was available for for hire
into December of next year Wow and then
it he asked me about some specifically
nuclear technology and if I knew
if I knew about red not Enterprise Linux
and Cento as some of you other things
yeah I knew I knew that and then it
turned out that the job is in in our
capital receipts which is 8
No 10 11 hours drive from here involve
me moving and you just got the house
though solve it
yeah and I'm not moving again until
until I get married until that's
happened if if that happens I'm staying
here moving yeah every every job offer
I've ever gotten it's like okay well we
need you to move to Calgary the Calgary
nothing wrong with tell Gary but I love
it here and Barry so and then he em and
then I am I mentioned that I'm sitting
on the board of doing a new agent UNIX
user group and he asked if I knew anyone
there who would be interested in doing
this kind of work and then I remember
and my friend who had the big raid array
so I gave him my friends he gave a colon
at their condo and he got sent on an EML
after the call because he called my
friend and after I called Leah and he is
going to send some an email with some
details that he is going to look up and
get back to them so so when they called
you they were they speaking English with
you no no no reason to disturb the power
company so in my language which is meets
Pro Tem or so much so today I actually
down a job offer that I might actually
know how to do as far as it sounded like
they were looking for some web
developers well hopefully as an
opportunity like that will arise that
doesn't require you movement ten hours
away yeah you know they you could you
could have pulled that out of your back
pocket been like proven this month that
we can work from home so I could work
remotely for you I said if it involved
remotely then I might be interested so
but no yeah so quick quick readings to
solve you at the top left we've got
Peter at the top right there's me and
your bottom well middle left and then
we've got a guy moto in the middle
square vp9 on the right oh you wrote a
centroid at the bottom hey guys how do
good morning
yeah I wouldn't want to move to Calgary
either think about all the flooding yeah
but it's just I'm so tied down to here
anyways like I like as a like my
family's here I wouldn't uproot my
children so it's not an option
a lot of stuff can be done remotely but
companies like to have a rep at the
location so I'm deliciously single no
attachments unless you count pets oh how
old are your kids
the youngest seventeen three definite
wild when you have to say the youngest
at 17 my youngest is nine so I'm not
there yet okay even that
read some nature you can have a decent
conversations with them so with the kids
of course we can't really do the Easter
celebrations this weekend like we
normally would our local local code
ninjas are actually going to be hosting
an Easter egg hunt in Minecraft and
roblox for the kids now it's like a free
event that any kids can can join in on
the fun and they hidden easter eggs all
throughout the worlds that they've
created itself that was really cool nice
video of Linux and one of the screws in
the students have made the entire campus
in that game I don't remember the name
which minecraft they made the entire
campus including all the interior
attending school inside that's so neat
yeah I and I thought this was just a
neat way for a company to say look I
know it's difficult with the kids stuck
at home and everything but here's
something that will do so they've got
this four hour window where the kids can
go on a virtual Easter egg hunt in the
game of their choice I just thought that
was pretty cool well that is cool
we're seeing a lot of those kind of
clever ideas coming out of some
companies and it's just like why didn't
I think of that that's a great great
thing so there what are you thinking
that forum on Tisch crummy yeah I know
right yeah I can't keep up with with the
games
what you're doing is that you could
design them and you can fire your studio
in my test and then you can have a
guests attending yes yeah I'm not I
think what we ran into when we try
that originally was that you can't
stream video into mind test so we need
to have like a theater or anything but
you must be able to image mind pitched
us the background by run I'm sorry
like we could sit on a green screen and
make a virtual studio in mind test I did
that the pixel shadow early seasons
tally was sitting at a desk in mind test
and the camera was kind of moving in and
out and it looked like she was sitting
in a like a studio in mind I was just
gonna say solution but it's I love death
I love the way you did that so it it is
by far the best episode yet
and by the way Robbie I I think I
remember asking you if you had tried
flying out to the ds9 model out there in
the 50s
yeah I did I don't know if you managed
it but I did and all I have to do is
should bump into it and that broke it
apart so yeah before before it was
protected yeah I mean my point is that I
got in the shuttle just like you tried
to do in the telecast yeah so I got in
the shuttle flew out of the shuttle
shuttle bay in Young Enterprise flew
over the enterprise and then flew over
to the ds9 what looked like a what
looked like a real company atheist 9 was
actually just a fairly small model and
all I could do all I had to do is to
bump into it and and a broke apart in
space I was quite surprised I thought oh
that's why
making more like ds9 episodes because
you you just can't take me anywhere can
really visitor here today oh yes we
would remember hearing about that you
broke all the records I finally made I
didn't catch your name Eric hi Eric last
minutes I've been trying to get the Xbox
connect work with Debian and it was a
bit hard but finally I got it so it was
a bit weird oh cool using the Xbox
camera on a debian machine to be able to
join us on soup that is not some herbage
that's a Rube Goldberg machine right
there so I can hear the European accent
but I'm sorry I can't tell you from
Germany or from Norway where are you
from
no way no way very nice welcome thank
you we are coming from a country very
well or natural tongue is a strong
encryption okay well we're gonna have to
ask rosemary to keep it down over there
yeah H to you you guys you guys tell
this girl Bo between 12:00 and 12:30
every day she's got to keep it down keep
it down even 9:00 and 9:30 Pacific time
all right yes oh we we forgive you no
problem sorry what's that Eric I said
that everyone is healthy it's
doing well here thank you hello yourself
doing well I'm trying to get away from
the people nothing on the bus some
trains and stuff yeah that's tough if
you've got to take public transit I
can't imagine that that makes it kind of
difficult I'm so glad I have my own car
yeah I have to met most of our customers
have been nice and keeping their
distance and actually covering up and
yeah you still there's still there's
always one in every crowd though things
up and the police people was like
running out of the bus it's just not
funny right no it's not that way to get
attention don't play well they don't
like the roads as well no I think it's
exactly why we had to cancel April
Fool's this year because it's just too
soon just can't make those kinds of
jokes do you want to tell the story
about with your billions and billions of
terabytes of video I've been saving
bribes for some years and that figure
out that I wanted some water ice and
then suddenly the controller just said I
don't want to be with you anymore so it
was like what do I do because I thought
it goes all the drives so I have to
check because I had one author and it
was like the same problem was there and
I was like six tribes dead it can't be
possible the same man yeah yeah right
but here's the question
when
the drive is part of a raid array how do
you check the drive without damaging any
of the data on the drive I guess you can
check the drive individually like the
smokes
you know it's also yeah you know what I
would do be p9 in a case like that is
I've been plugging it into an imager and
checking the sectors like see see the
smart codes and then also see if there's
any any bad sectors that are causing a
failure now it's not like you could plug
it in as a second drive on a Linux box
or something because it wouldn't be
mountable with it but you could you
could check the integrity of the drive
and you could damage it to a second
drive and then if you're able to make a
successful DD for example to India they
don't be able to insert that that
recovered copy into the array and reboot
the array and presume and a drive that
is at least as big yeah yeah yeah and in
this case - I seem to recall like the
assumption was that it was a drive issue
but then it turned it it turned out to
be a controller which you know at that
point it's like oh man you've gone to so
much amble didn't scrambled out yeah and
what do you do if you've got dual Drive
fault tolerance and it shows that you've
lost six for our data storage yeah I
have our server has eight drives which
are broken into two arrays and then I
have an external what's called an a raid
3500 and that is a raid
1 essentially it mimics a raid 1 but
it's a hardware device that you can
eject the second drive at will and take
that off-site and that's your like your
off-site backup and it just rebuilds
anytime you insert a new drive so
constantly every week I swap that drive
and that has 10 terabyte drives in it so
so my external backup the thing that I
take off-site is Luke's encrypted and it
has 10 terabytes of storage so basically
more than enough space for all our video
and the arrays in the server are
constantly backed up to that just how
long does it take to rebuild that 10
terabytes drive yeah put a new one in it
must take some time to read it would
because it's a sector-by-sector rebuild
which is annoying I think about the the
wear and tear on the drives and
technically that's not the best scenario
but it works and yet I've yet to fail a
drive because I use an ass drives in
there so they're they're meant to be
running all the time but honestly I
can't answer that because what I do is I
swap it at the end of the night and then
I take it home so by the time I'm there
next time it's already done it takes
many many hours it must be especially 10
terabytes my fault terabyte drive was
like it was like insert a new drive and
just go to sleep and was like oh yeah
what I do like about the a rate device
though is that it is because it's
external hardware it's not depending on
the bus or the CPU of the server so it's
completely separate from that so when
you put in the new drive it's running
it's able to rebuild that drive at full
SATA 3 space though so you're not having
to go through any controller or anything
like that it's just a direct rebuild in
the unit itself so I guess it was like
45 tarah yeah oh how do you back up
that's the question is how do you back
up 45 terabytes I think you said 25 25
yes he said about 110 total terabyte
storage and yes allocated almost only
told me to like start watching stuff and
not like yeah so so how do you back all
that up I mean I also have a RAID
storage but but I back that up on a on a
separate I have two separate ten
terabyte drives that I swap out when I
back them up I back up to one then the
next week I swap it out and back up to
the other and then the next week I swap
it out so it's constantly rotating the
backup drives but 10 terabytes just
enough for me to store everything that
I've got on my on my raid box a minute I
do that with a hundred terabytes or 40
terabytes or anything like that it's
yeah I've been praying about what cloud
yeah I've not heard of that but they
like decrease the upload so it's like
taking slow time but it doesn't cost
that much I need to back it up somewhere
and tonight buy another pair of
too much
I wonder if I add a duplication and a
sector level would assist with that kind
of data like if you were to take sector
by sector deduplication you could
probably create some kind of a parity
environment between two drives that
could rebuild a lot of the data but this
is online the backup exactly that would
be brutal
that would be brutal guys I can help you
with that
this will start out and back it up on
other things yeah I got coax here in the
states I'm getting 900 down and 50 up
not bad at all yeah I'm quite pleased
that's still pretty good
that's not too bad either 60 and 10 if
it's behaving yeah and if you're just
like I do i do broadcasting right so I
need that upstream kind of like Eric
needs it for bad enough is I made this
point yesterday or whenever it was a
couple of days ago that I might data
stays on my network on my devices yeah
so then in that case vp9 I'd be looking
at a dual raid set up like a raid six
plus one for example and you write
there's no backup
right isn't backup plus 1 6 plus
magnitude so you basically have to raid
6 units both of them mirrored to one
another and you take the five or six
drives out the second one
every week and you put them in a case
and you put in the other drives and
reboot the server and it comes yeah
right that's really the only way you can
do it yeah yeah why don't you think I'm
thinking robos yeah deposit box and run
them back and forth right right but
that's a pain in the butt to go to the
safe deposit box every week it's already
it's already a pain in the butt to back
it up every week do it but it's just a
little flight box I got a nice little
flight box that has slots for three and
a half inch drives and and so that helps
with that kind of backup speaking of
backups one thing that I think that most
people do it is a good thing to do but
you need to consider today many people
have two or more computers a friend of
mine one of my best friend's he told me
about his neighbor this is 20 years ago
and he had three laptops with XP on them
and he had configured everyone to make
backups of everything to the other two
laptops so he had the three copies or
everything and then one night one day
there the house was stuck and the power
cables were stuck by lightning and it
fried all three so everything so if you
need to have back at least one of the
backups need to always be not connected
to anything to have it for those who are
swapping drives you have their three
drives so you have at least one that is
not connected to anything that's what I
say I'm sorry but it's a try yeah for
the number of times that I've heard
somebody who brought in a computer and a
backup Drive and said here's my backup
they both got fried because the backup
is just a USB hard drinking right so
yeah you gotta air-gap that thing so
that's all the time that we have guys
Eric it's nice to meet you yeah we will
see
again for coffee break tomorrow my break
is over
take care I won't be out tomorrow but
yeah all right take it easy seulbi come
on
