welcome to our coffee break everybody
happy Friday it's the first of May 20 20
mm hello Oh bill I see you've got the
webcam working in the backyard yes he's
on a dolly track forgotten so be there
we got Peter Lois we got B p9s chair and
bp9 now joining us oh oh and somebody
sharing their screen who's doing that
what happened
what is that who did that and how that's
interesting it's not me it's Peter but
how did he take over the the whole
session oh he's not the default is that
it so on this issue sharing the screen
Nate comes from and how do i well see
this is so you you know you hear about
people being like well zoom has problems
no it's just you got to know how to do
it and I don't know how to do it don't
ever do that again
apparently there's a request remote
support button that lets somebody take
over the entire screen session so I'm
gonna look for a way to disable that
because that's just stupid for what
we're doing
everybody good yes good good morning
high BP nine and paid his dogs doing
fine - from what I can yes yeah
that's why that's why bills pets are
nice gallivanting dear I see yeah they
just quietly eat away all your
vegetable garden people would you look
at that would you look at it we made it
through another week guys I'm like way
behind on video editing after this the
distance is 3 feet and I'm not six and
free and and from May the 7th one can
gather up public places where there is a
someone in charge up to 50 people
Oh things I'm good that's not the case
here we're gonna we're gonna be shot in
place for a while yet and although we
keep hearing news that you know our
state is likely to start opening up it's
going to be extremely carefully and
cautiously done so but we're not talking
about we're not talking about that today
about something else yeah all the other
stations are talking about that but our
coffee break is just still get our mind
on other things
absolutely ok good leg like that today I
got to work today
have you got a fun time yet no I did
order a I did order a no droids c4 from
bow I think I put an order in - oh my
god I got a notification from from a
marriage riod yesterday that said they
now have stock like ok that's that's a
sign that I need to order one so I did
yes disappointed that the c2 is being
discontinued bill you mentioned that
the c2 is oh it just banished disappears
because he just afforded it to me I like
that case is that it's very 5-4 case
that's you know it's open on the sides
does that kind of same on it
motion no it was that it's the same it's
not the same form fact or not the same
like I oh but it's the same format as
the PI three not five four but yeah cuz
it's got I'm gonna have to take it off
I've got it's got a barrel Jack for
power oh right yeah I wonder if that
means you can easily adapt a kks be case
because I'm I'm dying that put it in a
proper case yeah it's possible
probably well but and it's got fully to
fully HDMI connector not those micros
that the four has they run right yeah
yeah hey Ron no these are FM processes
right these are not Intel processor
these are am logics and logic so there
are different you said there are
different instruction set to Intel for
instance right yeah yeah so any Linux
packages that I would water install
would have to would have to have been
compiled for that instruction set her
arm based they have to be arm base yeah
garlic okay okay
which is you know that good rhyming I
was just gonna say like that was when
the Raspberry Pi first came out there
weren't a lot of arm users out there so
but now it's like pretty much any modern
project is available on the ARM
architecture so I haven't really
encountered any trouble that way in the
past maybe a year or two you know which
one isn't this quarter are you kidding I
guess I mean there's the there's the
obvious ones like VirtualBox and you
know stuff like that but that's because
it's x86 emulation right
you know discord though you got to do it
in the browser if you want to put it on
this on and on thing a good thing at
this I like the idea having emmc
you know yeah and it's funny because I
went to the the download site to get the
Ubuntu 2004 droid none of the links work
to say your boo 2004 wasn't wasn't very
stable yeah somebody said that it's
brand new it's never gonna be stable
right out the gate I I don't have
problems with it
the thing is is I did order to emmc
cards and they came preloaded with the
2004 on it oh no okay what's the latest
stable version hey you know for I get
you know for for LTS yeah okay that's
probably when I would go with then I
think I've got 1604 installed after top
of my head I don't remember
I think it's 1604 is what I've got
currently installed but now the you
every LTS version comes out every what
four years doesn't to you it's to you
yeah okay so 2004 is gonna be the next
LTS version it is the next LTS so it's
only a matter of a little bit of time 16
okay yeah yeah I too AM keen on that
emmc as opposed to SD cuz that's the
biggest downfall I think of the
Raspberry Pi if you can call it downfall
not really but we talked about that I
should yeah yeah mmm-hmm no no
absolutely it's kind of redundant to say
it but yeah the c4 is like a Raspberry
Pi for in so many ways but at emmc yeah
the other devices like the pine book and
prank or pro
eventually the point I'm all do am MC is
alright
mmm-hmm true yeah okay I really don't do
that I meant to pine phone I'm sorry
yeah yeah I've got to get into this emmc
stuff so I think I might have to just
get me and our droid oh yeah yeah my
favorite board is for the longest time
has been the xe4 I think just as an
all-round like use this for everything
that you normally would use a little
debian server for it's really really
good
but the c-4 could give it a run for its
money I don't know how they stand up how
is it how do they look as far as giggle
score bill like between the xu4 and the
and the c4 because you are the c4 in
almost every way is on just the hair
below the xu4 okay so xe4 is still on
top of that just barely Riley but it
still holds its own as being a really
good little Debian server
okay the xu4 has been out for years yeah
it feels like two years anyways so so it
sounds like mush man you've already
showed us your room your farm of this
pcs they just keep it going they do so I
guess you just keep adding in us PC when
you've got something new to deploy right
so I don't tell them I am when they
become out okay
yes you saw all those in use those are
all names okay I have a bunch that are
still in those those plastic drawers
they're just sitting there
and I guess the point is that you only
run names on that on those particular
devices right I tested karate okay okay
ultimate bug tester III wasn't
originally gonna jump right on the and
the the c-4 bandwagon but Venice
he mentioned that the c2 was going
bye-bye and then it's like oh man I got
that means I have to get a c4
immediately because I'm gonna have to
port names to it I'm gonna have to
replace the c2 you run them 24/7 yeah
yeah they're that mine around all the
time my lion exam where is my piehole
like a like Star Trek yes you run them
all off at UPS absolutely absolutely we
lost power last week and we were really
discussing it funny we did seems every
time we discuss something like that
something happens so we lost the are and
I believe the the UPS said I still had
well over 200 minutes of power for all
those SBC's running out of my UPS
batteries or anywhere near that good I
wouldn't get even with just an icepick
so you don't get anywhere near that kind
of injury I barely know mine - barely
know they don't draw a lot of power so
I'm eager to see how this one you unit
comes together I did order the parts for
that - for the power units so hopefully
hopefully that'll all come together but
finding out that I well figuring that I
gotta go only with five volt boards and
I noticed bill that the c4 allows
anywhere from 5.5 to 14 volts so that is
your board my friend yeah so but it's
it's not gonna go into the one you cuz
it takes I'm gonna use a 12 volt 2 amp
for that once okay well we'll see how
this chassis you know how I can fill it
with a bunch of just have to get you
just have to get to one new shelves one
for the hall the five bolt they species
and one for all the 12 all these things
oh don't tempt me dude
that's how I would do it you know yeah
we go put a big ol sign on it 12 volts
on one 5 volts on the other and make
sure they don't cross yes that's that's
not a bad idea
yeah ii have a second one year yeah I
say do it man come on let's go you know
what's interesting about it so you think
about well don't cross the the power
well I'm I'm bringing the power in from
a 19 volt power adapter and then I'm
stepping it down to 5 volts or at all
along dip it down to 5 volts just as
easily well that's the thing so even if
even if you accidentally swapped the
cable the step-down is still gonna take
it down to 12 volts well as long as or 5
dollars 10 volt input yeah yeah well
that's it I'm rien ding all the cables
so yeah so it's gonna be just a power
jack on the back of the server barrel
connector that I can plug into and then
I'll just tie the the cable onto the
chassis or something with a tie wrap
good idea 2 2 1 2 1 1 unit it's too bad
it like the one that I bought it was on
special for 30 bucks and of course at
that yeah at that price though they sold
out so I don't think I'll now now that
you mention it I feel terrible yeah
should have bought three just to have a
backup one you know what if I had a
third one I put a cluster board fine 64
cluster board in that one that's semanas
Liddy right there Lamia Rix Rex bye
Steve thank you I do yeah and it's a
double-sided rack so whole break the
height of it and times it by two on the
one I would've done it though that if
you good blood flow volcania but they
just quit the bad guy
I feel yeah well with the step down
though it'll take it to whatever voltage
I've set it at no matter what I plug
into it
you got me gap would we do that could
you could really be a funny movie blog
the long run in and bang you got nothing
yeah Peter you can plug your 19 volts
into any one of us exactly I'm
converters and it'll work
and Peter suggests that plugging in the
wrong voltage could damage your
equipment Marsh man any comments that's
one of the neat things about a step-down
though is that you can set it to 5 volts
or 5.2 volts or whatever you want and no
matter what your input is so if it's I
can plug 15 volts into that I could plug
12 volts or 19 and it's still gonna step
it down to 5 what do you think yeah
mm-hmm with the step-down it's going to
just give you a different amperage but
the voltage will still be stable so I'll
get 5 point 2 volts with more amps if I
plug in a more powerful power supply so
I like that idea
to give a credit for the for the 12 vote
Fiasco - Oh droid I did plug in a 12
volt power supply to an xu4 which is
supposed to have a 5 volt
I didn't realize and the board kept
working
but the regulator blue so it it was
wonky but still work I didn't release
the blue smoke so the regulator was on
the board though right yeah yeah so
could you replace the regulator or did
you just toss the board I still have the
board it's it's mark for me still I'm
still I'm still trying to figure out the
best um
I don't have a use case I don't think
for having multiple SPC's you know
deployed you say that because you
haven't played with convince me what I
got every time I see it in SPC whether
it be a rush retire or or no droid what
I see is idle in another Linux instance
right so you've got so we have this
mentality right now yeah bigger faster
stronger more powerful more RAM more
harddrive space that's our mentality of
server admins so I want a server that's
this big and this powerful and is able
to run a whole bunch of virtual machines
and a whole bunch of instances and a
whole bunch of tasks on that one piece
of equipment so was it rate yet I'm not
yeah yeah but I'm saying in general
that's kind of our mentality as a
industry so single board computers take
that and flip it on its head and say ok
let's take a different approach of this
heavy consumption device the traditional
server which draws a lot of power and
cost a lot of money comparatively to run
like the ongoing operating expenses and
instead create single task devices that
are all individual Linux machines so
you've got a Raspberry Pi here that is
my DNS server so where this server could
be DNS website file serving virtual
machines everything else
well the Raspberry Pi is just my DNS
server and then you've got another one
that is just my upon stinson another one
that's my MySQL and MariaDB
so you've got purpose-built appliances
that take up a lot less energy they can
be powered by something like I'm talking
about like this step-down controller and
and they're purpose-built so if one goes
down you can just pop out the card pop
in another card and be back up and
running really really fast and it's only
that one service that goes down one I
said that so I could probably the
Blithedale yeah that probably
package said LM gem I told so I know
yeah that would that would makes it if
that was the putt Reagan Apple too much
to make creamy mostly I think that Billy
now yeah I'm totally avoided it yeah I
did if the part was probably it's
probably in - the one that I know me you
did LM said myself so I've not to usual
one I'm wanted to use one night huge and
to supply tube major they've been
grouped anything else cutting cultural
are very well father things like did you
choose everything else up you might be
lucky or might be lucky though
oh no you know as long search for as
long as such for part that's actually
only only device and as long as they're
easy enough to get it off the ball it
might be surface mounted yeah they
literally battery later you could you
type goodbye Claire horrible things if
we can unload it yeah but it's about
they known on on the on the red lighter
you have to look for it on though and
they should be red normal like lighter
they don't think they don't know I can I
just draw it back up our I remember
reading an article 15 years ago yeah
they was it may be on office which which
one of the features it said it had was
but it could detect if the computer lost
power and in the few in the in the last
second over having power all the
features were studied automatically did
did did a save on auto safe oh well that
actually worked I have I have my doubts
like a capacitor I'm sorry we cannot
talk much in one second flush around the
bed lie bill they voted regulator a
verbal one we isn't adjudged but they
probably a transit which turns a thing
on at all and that controller in Israel
when their legs are closed low in in a
resistor essentially was it it turns a
massive oil and he protects you any
problems
it could love him in the second
Crisfield you don't protect equipment
they do shroud to it better their joint
plenty to look like quicker than a few
it would be really enough John Young and
accepted with lovely milliseconds Fuji
bloody hundreds of a second here take
sides in the warm-up and a little bit
war though you know to remember that you
have you don't protect you really kept
electronically I think to be make sure
that's the thing is make sure the thing
is really you know who you're protected
the thing is go rollover passed large
which I'm basically when the gun goes up
eight eight ages take thank the going
down to zero
told you to deliver a gurney there when
he bought load honey they did go down to
zero and they go all the one dollar you
would you could turn the you get you did
to the power off button the voltage of
the regulator and then that protects so
give those a yet a little bit on Bobby
so much man I have a question a quick
one for you Marsh mean with all those
SBC's that you've got at your um at your
location at your house apart from the
ones that are running means what else he
using them
again I'm trying to get use cases
I'm trying for your arms cases no I just
I just load them up and play with them I
actually have a PI cluster I have eight
raspberry pi threes in a cluster I'm
looking to replace those that's where
I'm hoping the c4 we've really shine so
I want to get it so I can I miss I plant
try and play around with parallel
programming okay let's go
use mine I use mine for Samba server so
I have one that's a Samba server I have
one that is my piehole so it's a debian
machine running piehole so it's my DNS
server were you home but you are king
crab is gonna fix that right no the
micro tech has firewall rules that
reroute all DNS traffic through the
piehole
so if somebody tries to override the DNS
settings they can't it will
automatically reroute them so I missed I
missed that
I missed that point in the broadcast on
Wednesday because I thought that you
were saying that the mikrotik was oh oh
I see yeah I thought I realized that I
was saying act that the piehole was
integrated in there in the wrapper
yeah no but not through an unintentional
okayness misspoke in that ruled it the
micro tech is a big portion of how the
pie hole is able to operate in a in a
like firm fashion but it's not actually
built into the micro tech it's a rule
the reroutes the traffic to the pie hole
and I was looking back at my notes at
the new Netgear router that I that I
purchased a few months ago to replace
the old Nikki router and you were making
a point that the that the firmware on
the routers is is proprietary and closed
and I did that because looking back
through my notes and realized that
the router would not even come online
until it had phoned home you held my
hand yeah that was one but I mean I
didn't return that I kept that I kept it
down you know you have to fight you have
to select an admin password right that's
not the default password and then it
found home hmm I wonder if China knows
my you know it bugs me
it bugs me where no that is a little bit
on the other side don't be at all
surprised and this is an it dear I
probably should I don't care I've said
it already it was a it was a you know
well known new router so yeah but the
net years traditionally are pretty good
for having third-party firmware support
as well I mentioned tomato and dd-wrt
yeah no dd-wrt usually finds
compatibility on neck dear devices so
you could always reflash with an
open-source router firmware so how
comfortable one of the things I would
love to do would be to re-enable SSH
access by I've talked about that before
I pick a port number that's really high
in the range and then that that allows
me to ss-18 back to the house yeah from
any laptop right but my question to you
is how solid does the router have to be
consumer or or otherwise or Enterprise
Reata what are the what a little the the
what are the things you look for because
one of the things I'm thinking of doing
is taking the u-verse modem and
literally just bridging it we talked
about you've talked about that I've
never tried it but that router as long
as it's not breached at least provides
some protection it does not allow for
instance the SSH incoming connection to
come in I can't brain I can't do it I've
tried I've tried I can't do it it seems
like the only solution is to bridge the
repair the modem to my router but the
routers taking the brunt of all of all
all the hits now because yeah once
you've bridge them
you're not yeah it's not offering any
protection at all right yeah you went
now you'd say it's all quiet
yep and we're right we're right out of
time too but I'll just kind of in final
thoughts in response to that vp9
the the interesting thing there is by
bridging your modem and instead tapping
into a proper firewall device I'm
thinking along the lines of the micro
tech the mikrotik has a specific type of
processor and specific software in place
that's meant to be able to withstand
those types of attacks so suddenly your
modem is not getting the attacks and
it's not as good of a quality device so
it's not going to lock up instead your
micro tech for example will be able to
reject those those not wanted packets
but a lot of it I could configure the
NIC me rather to do the same thing
quite possibly yeah so we're where the
mikrotik I think is going to stand out
in that regard is that rather than DMZ
in port 22 which basically means opening
it up to the world because you want to
be able to access it you can set it to
only allow your MAC address or only
allow your IP address or simply say I'll
allow anyone to connect to that port
whatever the the public port is but not
if they're from China or anywhere like
that you can set up a demo like
geographic regions for where is allowed
to connect through that port in your
mikrotik router so so that's that's you
know it's good when you know I'm not
gonna be traveling outside the US so I
will open this port but I'm only going
to open it for the US and that was so I
do tricks to to Australia every now and
again and I can I can open it up for
Australia right and only for the
duration of the trip otherwise you won't
get out to everybody you tipped the
other option and what I've set up in the
past is having SSH key
being set up that was able to
communicate yeah but but to actually
communicate and authenticate to allow
access to the port using that
authentication so prett from the
essential benefit yes and not even for
the connection itself but just to be
able to allow access through the port it
has to authenticate using my key so
there's just no limit to the security of
something like a mikrotik so but that's
all the time that we have I or I think
maybe we should start we can start one
of these with with some great nerdy
stuff and then do that and then we don't
get cut off well let my string came to
me you know yeah let's rip it up the
conversation in you know are you
tomorrow tomorrow we'll talk about
security yeah great afternoon guys we'll
see you tomorrow on the coffee break
bye thanks bye
