welcome to category five technology TV
hey this week we are gonna be getting
our maker on we have a sensor that we're
gonna be connecting to the Raspberry Pi
so that we can see just like Geordi
we're gonna be seeing in thermal
footprints and actually be able to see
temperature you've seen the images and
we're gonna be showing you how you can
build your own thermal sensor with a
Raspberry Pi with a Raspberry Pi
microcomputer to get ready for folks to
grab our live recordings our trusted
only two solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 TV category
5 TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tackett's here cat 5 TV
slash TPM and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash iai be well welcome to the
show everybody it's so great to have you
here with us this week last week was a
write-off because we had technical
difficulties so those of you who who go
to our website try to watch us live or
watch us on demand this is episode
number 629 2.0 we're gonna try it again
folks but we're broadcasting we are live
and so what happened last week well
basically what did but yet nothing at
all
so our patrons came together and said
hey we love category 5 technology TV and
if you do they become a patron by going
to patreon.com slash category 5 and by
doing that you're supporting what we do
but they all came together and said we
want to make this happen we want to
upgrade the studio for season 13 so we
built up
brand-new beautiful I 999 hundred K
broadcast Rick so you're blaming them
it's all the patrons fault yeah yeah
thank you for your know what what it
comes down to is hey Robbie is the guy
who's got to put all this together
ultimately it's not like I'm calling up
Dell and saying hi I need a new
broadcast server and can you send it to
me and they'll be here Tuesday and I'll
just have it up and running for
Wednesday no it's like okay no it's like
no I got actually assemble everything
put it all together and in order to do
that so in order to build this new
broadcast rig yeah I got to take apart
the old one right so think about this
gotta take all the bits and bobs out of
this one put it in this one yep and say
go right and then when we say go it
doesn't go so now we're like okay well
we can't resort back to the old one
because we've already transitioned the
parts we can't get the new one up and
going in the time that we have allocated
because we're live every single week
that's the that is hope now last week we
weren't if we had 10 episodes I could
help you remember that time so but keep
in mind last week having had to go
basically off the air for one week
because of technical difficulties that
was only the second time yes second time
in 13 years of category 5 technology TV
where we missed a show first time do you
remember yeah we was in the power
without yes the power was completely out
and actually in our entire city yes but
all of Barry's yeah the Sun shone
brightly Baghdad it was a beautiful day
there was no excuse for it it's just
there was no electricity for the entire
city for hours and hours and hours
wasn't a small rodent or something I
want to say I want to say yes because
that would be an awesome story
reading something about like a squirrel
or something that Gotti and shoot a line
or something yeah I think you're
thinking of Australia's internet lines
where the where the where the birds were
actually eating a whole city you got a
power outage when a fish got dropped on
the power lines from a bird like a bird
in grabbed a fish and dropped it on
power lines these things happen these
sound like weaknesses in the
infrastructure okay if a bird can drop a
fish on the power lines and kill the
power for all of the humans well there's
a problem so anyways this week we are up
and running on the new broadcast rig
thank you to our patrons and if all goes
well now I'm saying this from my mouth
live so I don't know if this is the case
but if you're watching this after the
fact and you click on that little gear
icon on YouTube and you see that there
is 4k video output then you know that
everything worked flawlessly yes that's
the hope if you don't see that yes so
I'm imagine jumping from 1080p well
let's back up about 12 years and say
from 360p up to 720p up to 1080p all the
way to 4k now 4k can we just just
confirm with me is for kit just for
candy and I need to wear more makeup
like do I need to like basically mean we
got it we got it like we got to cover
everything I gotta do something about
this this is a problem on everything and
for those of you with 85-foot screens in
the in the far future can you see this
can you see the detail I'm asking this I
can't just wonderful every week every
single week Sasha do you see that gray
right there
yeah that's because of the server last
week I had a full head of hair last week
and then I laughed and this is how I
looked yes hey greetings to the chatroom
everybody over the
on discord that is our Titan pie which
has been incidentally just Old Faithful
that's been running perfectly
it's a Raspberry Pi microcomputer
running software that I ported from
Titan now Titan embeds is open source
software and I ported it to the
Raspberry Pi built a distro called Titan
Pi and that's running on a Raspberry Pi
that we can see you can't right over
they're just kind of hanging out plugged
into an Ethernet port and five volt
power and that's powering our discord
channel right over there what you see
just beyond Jeff so welcome to everybody
who's joining us in our chat it's nice
to see everybody and it is
interconnected with our IRC server as
well though just keep in mind if you're
on IRC you're missing out on some of the
bonus features such as extra chat rooms
like we have channels like what do we
got here I feel like we actually have a
channel called bacon it's like if you're
on IRC you're in things that are not
bacon and then that you're missing out
on bacon bacon is actually one of our
most active channels we've got we've got
an eighteen public channels eighteen
what do we got we got pictures we've got
exclusive category five technology TV
wallpaper right screens that you can put
on your desktop things like that come
ponds coupons that you can use to save
money and support category five
technology it's all on our discord hey
if you don't know how to get there all
you have to do is go to category five
dot TV click on interact and join the
discord server and that's a great way to
participate in the show not only during
the live show but also to be able to
communicate with us because we tend to
frequent the the discord server
throughout the week as well generally my
full-time job I love it that's it I know
it pays miserably yeah discord doesn't
pay I just wake up check discord what
happened while I slept
look at that bacon is our volunteer
positions yes like we have such an
incredible community that loves
category-five that they get involved and
it's not just by watching or patron so
check out that volunteer positions tab
because maybe there's something you
do yeah I put one in there saying we
needed an editor and Harry has been good
enough to take on that position and he's
doing the editing for us after the show
so the category 5 TV newsroom for
example all that stuff's going in there
his ramen is replaceable if you just
step up please replace me or at least
take some of the burden ever take some
of the burden off of my shoulders time
you were not here I I don't remember
that survived barely we survived week by
I had a training session I botched it
but it worked well this is a good way
and now look at the setup now we would
like our entire broadcast rig is in this
little box see you could go away now
that's it fine yep that's those are all
our cameras folks I can hit buttons you
can push buttons I can push butts so
like if I wanted to show you like what
we're gonna be doing I can just push
this button and be like whoa whoa
seamless noise so that's what we're
gonna be taking a look at as a Raspberry
Pi ah beautiful because this week we're
gonna get our maker fingers wet oh you
know hopefully not because yeah it's
gonna short-circuit and everything but
imagine have you ever seen those images
where like they've they've taken thermal
imagery and you see like a person and
they're red and the background is black
yes because it's actually picking up the
heat signature yes you seen that yeah
yeah we're gonna we're gonna actually
build one of those today sweet it's
gonna work although I'm cut again right
I'm looking into the future but we got
to take a really quick break when we
come back I'm actually gonna get to
soldering I've got this heating up yeah
watch your papers there section get your
flux
yeah I got my flux I got everything all
ready to go we've got my magnifier and
we're gonna be doing a little bit of
soldering here and creating our very own
thermal imaging sensor love it cool
stick around
[Music]
so we've looked at Raspberry Pi
microcomputers we've looked at a variety
of pine sixty-four boards and Odroid
boards and the question becomes
especially when we got looking on
episode number I think five six twenty
five when we were looking at the
Raspberry Pi four and looking at like
how hot does this thing get would it be
nice to be able to see the actual
thermal qualities of that device be able
to actually look at it and see it
thermally but then use not only you test
how hot it is but you can see a lot
feedback on how stops hot like Geordi
LaForge
that's right basically that's what we're
doing here folks are creating a visor
but that would be incredible but you get
on to Amazon you get on to websites you
start looking at these thermal imaging
scanners and they're like four hundred
bucks 200 bucks for a really cheap one
and it's like oh what if I could
actually build one for now III say this
with this stipulation I have multiple
Raspberry Pi micro computers available
to me and I've got boxes and boxes of
raspberry PI's you might as well as a
maker if you have a Raspberry Pi what if
I could add a sensor to your Raspberry
Pi for 30 maybe up to $50 depending on
where you buy from
but between 30 and 50 dollars let's
actually turn that Raspberry Pi into a
thermals scanning imager cooler we can
actually turn it into a camera that
doesn't see like our natural eyes see
but like Jordi sees you to be able to
see heat signatures super cool that's
what I want to achieve today so a cap
five dot TV /pi I've got this little
micro circuit controller thing for
Arduino that's so tiny that you can't
even see it like this is it's it's like
80 yeah it's right here can you see that
yeah
little sensor don't worry this guy is
going to help me because this is a four
hundred times magnifying video
broadcasting system that's going to
allow me to show you what what this
thing looks like so it comes in two
parts we've got the circuit board with
the sensor which is an 8 by 8 Panasonic
sensor it's the AMG 8833 grid I breakout
board from Adafruit and it comes with
the little I guess one two three four
five six pin IO okay connector but
they're not soldered together so I'm
actually gonna have to do some soldering
tonight for you but what I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna do something that I learned
from out of fruit and thought hey why
don't I give this a try so I'm actually
going to plug the breakout into my into
my breadboard Oh
so let's actually let's jump over to my
magnifying camera here so you can see
what I'm looking at so that is the
actual sensor this is an eight by eight
out of fruit AMJ 8833 grid I break up
board and that is the the Panasonic
sensor right there and that is going to
give us the the thermal imaging
basically a camera of sorts but it's
picking up not a picture but the thermal
quality's the temperature of an 8x8 grid
okay so it's actually picking that up
and going to we're gonna create software
ru software to translate that it's gonna
actually give us an array of 64
individual IR thermal prints okay so
here's my breadboard I want to actually
put this on the breadboard for the
soldering job so I've got the pins here
which which Jeff came with it the pins
were included so I put these into the
breadboard as I saw an Adafruit because
they said hey this is a good way to do
your soldering it's gonna keep it nice
and steady and I've always thought that
done this with with the helping hands
and it's a bit of a pain in the butt
right it doesn't work really well so so
the one thing here though is that it's
kind of like it's got this seesaw thing
going on so when I put my
the board the the break-up board on the
pins it's sitting a little bit too high
so I'm just gonna stick a resistor on
the breadboard as well only to give it
support so that's just to give it
somewhere to sit so it's basically just
working like a like a stool for that
just to keep it straight and here we go
yeah there's a life hack for the day so
first thing I need Jeff any guesses flux
flux thank you very much so we're gonna
get I've got a toothpick here and dab
that into the flux and get that onto my
pins on that yeah this is this is but
this is zoomed it's like like look at
the printing on the board like we're 300
400 times zoom right so the flux is
going to protect the solder keep it keep
it from I don't I don't want any cold
solder joints so the flux is going to
help me with that can barely see it
they're they're way too light in this
yeah the the camera actually has a knob
here that I can use to brighten that up
a little bit for you let's see if that
helps there we go that's better
sweet it's like translucent if you look
at the moisture in that soldering iron
here and let's turn this into liquid
shall we perfect all right so heat of
course is gonna liquefy that flux yes
there we go now there's not going to be
an issue with the flux going through the
holes in the circuit board and affecting
your my breadboard board ah well I mean
it's gonna it's gonna seep in a little
bit but okay I've never actually used
the breadboard to do this before I
always use it just for the the contacts
themselves but let's give it a let's
give it a try and we'll see okay okay my
joint is a little bit off off camera
there let's try this right here look at
the size of my tip like just so you can
you can see the
the zoom there there we go look at that
soldering joints I first tried is it
better than before I'm getting there so
I'm heating that up heating up the post
just a little bit and then we're gonna
get some solder on there this is super
magnified folks so you're seeing it
massive there we go okay and boom there
we go nice job right yeah it's not bad I
mean these are six joints right so boom
boom boom there we go I could do this
and one two final joints there we go
okay you gonna try soldering Sasha
you're gonna yeah try your hand at it
can I borrow something of yours yeah go
to cat5 TV slash solder to get your own
there we go and could my sixth joint be
just as nice as the first five it's
looking like looking like looking like
and there we go how do you like that
beautiful yeah look at that
okay yeah I'm gonna show you a little
bit of a close up there and we're gonna
get a look at the the circuit board in
just a moment's time but there we go so
it's actually on my breadboard so Jeff
asked did it damage the breadboard Jeff
no not really
no actually that's not bad now it's go
seeped through a little bit
oh yeah just not a little bit of
discoloration it's not a big deal yeah
not a really big deal but what you can
maybe pour some some 99% alcohol over
that give it a bit of a wipe down or
something like that and see how it goes
awesome okay so let's jump back over
here I'm gonna show you how this how
this actually turned out switch over to
my camera and there is my solder joints
look at that very clean oh yeah look at
how fancy I am just get some of that
flux off of there well you have big
fingers there you go you see a job what
do you think what do you think have I
done okay I think so
have I improved boss yes even marsh man
says you've been doing really well oh
wow thanks so much look at the first one
is a little bit janky rest of them are
kind of perfect but that's pretty and
super magnified right and look at the
pins like look at how huge this is right
so I'm actually going to now take this
circuit board that I've now soldered
yeah take it over to my unboxing camera
I'm gonna move my coffee here Jeff so
that you can adjust the the camera there
and you want to just actually switch
over to the unboxing unbox camera
absolutely and are we there now you're
there okay so you guys can see me here
so what I have here is my new RAB
platform for Raspberry Pi I've got a
mega what is it a 2560 board Arduino
microcontroller which is going to allow
me to do a lot more kind of micro
processing and doing some really cool
projects with you here on category 5
technology TV so all I want to do now
I've got the tea cobbler plus v2 plugged
into my Raspberry Pi now the Raspberry
Pi I notice is powered on right now I
can see the LED so I don't want to
actually start making connections this
is in fact so this this sensor that we
just created tonight is in fact I
squared C connectivity so you can see as
I showed there's only six pins there am
I the right side up now that's better
there you go
so we're only going to use four of these
in order to actually create the
connectivity to our Raspberry Pi okay
that's going to give us the ability to
control everything so I'm gonna plug
this into my breadboard and the
breadboard works by and and the reason
I'm using a breadboard is just to
quickly prototype this tonight now of
course if you're gonna be building this
you're going to want to actually set
something up that's a little more
permanent but for the sake of the
demonstration I want to just kind of
connect everything together so I'm going
to I'm going to quickly fade to black
I'm going to power off the Raspberry Pi
and then come right back and that's all
there is to it so I'm just gonna so I've
powered off the Raspberry Pi
just gonna disconnect the power and
let's get started with our wiring now as
I mentioned we're only having to deal
with four wires so mighty cobbler this
is a really really handy tool I'm gonna
just get in here a little bit so that
you can see a little bit closer let's
make sure I've got good focus and bring
the tea cobbler into focus so that you
can see what I'm actually dealing with
so 3.3 volts that is my power for the
the VIN on this particular sensor and
the tea cobbler makes it a lot easier
for me to be able to find the raspberry
pi connectors on the GPIO so this is
connected to the GPIO and then it gives
me a breakout that makes a lot of sense
to me as a rookie maker so I'm gonna
plug into the the 3.3 volts and we're
gonna bring that over to the VIN of my
of my sensor let's actually bring this
down I'm gonna bring the sensor down
onto this side of the the breadboard
just because I got these short little
cables so 3.3 volts is going to go into
my VIN there we go Jeff have you worked
with a breadboard yet I have not okay so
see what's happening here so the 3.3
volt Lane is on this side of the board
so this line here is a this breaks it up
okay okay so this line here says this is
this side of the tea cobbler this is
this side of the tea correct
okay so 3.3 volt any pin on this side
yeah so you see how there are two pins
exposed I can plug into any one of those
so if I wanted another 3.3 volts I could
plug in right there well I don't want
that I just want the 3.3 volts going to
the VIN on my sensor right guys now I
need ste
let's let's move down the line we've got
SDA one so that's the next pin on the
Raspberry Pi aka well the tea cobbler so
I'm gonna plug into the next pin on my
breadboard let's bring that to so we've
got SDA one is going to go to SDA on my
sensor there we go
okay now SCL on the so SCL one on the
tea cobbler that's the third pin down
for me is going to go to take a gas
s-see elk ok SCL do you see that this is
is this upside-down for you I know it is
upside down on the screen right that but
you can see that is SCL right there and
if vampires watching or we're gonna be
fine reading yeah hang upside down and
one more pin cuz I promise you that
we're gonna be four of them right what's
the one that's missing ground right so
I'm gonna skip one here grab the ground
right there and that's gonna go to the
ground pin on the on the sensor itself
okay there we go that looks so simple
like it looks easy it really is isn't it
yeah so that's that's it so I've
soldered the pins on to my sensor I've
got the tea cobbler going to my
raspberry pi 3 and the sensor is now
connected with 4 pins and of course that
is giving me I squared C connectivity
for the sensor so let's fire up the
board I can actually plug this back in
the Raspberry Pi here we go and we're
not gonna see any fanfare here folks
we're literally just plug it in a
Raspberry Pi but Jeff if you want to
switch back to the wide camera I'm gonna
jump back here onto the set sure and
bring the Raspberry Pi keyboard with me
because this should should give me
connectivity to that Raspberry Pi so if
I actually switch over here let's see
what what comes up the feed has not gone
down people we're looking at the PI
booting up yeah that's it
yeah no anomalies there we go ok so here
we are in a Raspberry Pi 3 so that's my
board I'm gonna just kind of escape out
of this stuff and I'll tell for yeah I
know I know
ok first step I'm gonna open my menu
here and go to preferences
yeah Raspberry Pi configuration and we
need to enable the interface so let's
jump into the interfaces here and we're
gonna activate or aka
enable I squared C ok that's the the
protocol we're going to be using to
communicate with the sensor I'm going to
hit OK and now I just need to reboot
because it's not actually gonna do
anything until I reboot that computer
that
Raspberry Pi this is that micro computer
that I've got sitting over there
connected to my sensor so let's give it
a reboot and let's see what happens when
things come up
no is that black screen of death
here comes I just wanted you to see this
is legitimately raspberry fun oh is that
a default setting that's turned off in
the I squared C is disabled by default
because you need to turn that on if you
want to use it okay right so now I've
turned it on as it comes back now I'm
gonna have connectivity to that sensor
we're gonna we're going to determine
that by running some terminal commands
and we're gonna see if I do in fact have
access to that sensor so let's close out
of this stuff again eventually you know
this is a fresh boot of raspbian so I
will set up write that up so that it's
not sudo su enter noise I am now route
because I strive on power there we go
okay so I need to do an apt update
that's of course the first thing that
you ever do on a new raspbian install
that's gonna give me access to some of
the newest latest and greatest awesome
packages on the system now while it's
doing the update I know I love that
you're using this remote control
Bluetooth controller to do all of that
it's actually not bluetooth what I
bought the one that has a wireless okay
USB dongle okay the reason I did that is
because I don't always buy single board
computers that have bluetooth make sense
let alone the fact that until you enable
bluetooth and connect the device and
pair the device but it may not work nice
thing about this one is it has a USB
receiver so it always works from boot
oh god access to the keyboard so I love
that internet connectivity on this board
you can see the Raspberry Pi I'm just
gonna because I've got that camera up
for you I just want you to see a little
bit better I'm just gonna move this for
you
and you can see I've got Ethernet
plugged into there so that's how I'm
getting Internet you could use Wireless
if you wanted to I've got HDMI output so
that you can see it and then I've got
our and then I've got the GPI the GPIO
connected to the tea cobbler and the tea
cobbler can the tea cobblers connected
to the sensor and that's going to give
us everything that we need inside my
brain were you actually humming that
song so you were because I'm saying
they're going I want peach cobbler yes
okay how are we looking okay 48 packages
can be upgraded but we're not going to
do that today because hey this is a live
show and that would be really really
boring okay so I'm gonna I'm gonna
actually I mention that I want to see if
the I squared C connectivity is actually
seeing that sensor I connected it with
those four pins right but am I actually
able to see it so let's actually do that
let's type I to see no yeah I to see
detect is the command it's hard to see
here did I spell it right I to see
detect yes notice I am route because I
used sudo su so I to see detect -
where's - on this keyboard Jeff - why
one okay there's our command and enter
and you see that 69 that is our sensor
okay how cool is that so that is the AMG
8833 grid I from cat5 TV slash thermal
why the 69 because I notice on the
screen there it's a grid and you're in
you're in the 60s another 9 why did it
show up as a 69 and not one of the other
like a 96 well yeah like is that a
specific pin placement it'll be
different for a different control like
different sensors different sensors will
provide a different response okay all
right so so this one that's the that's
the actual that's what we're looking for
here on i2c that's the right response so
I do need to install some stuff in order
to get this to work so we're gonna go
app install and there's a lot of stuff
that I need obviously I'm gonna need get
right Jeff because that's what I'm gonna
use to get any git repository yeah I
gotta get her done
so that I'm gonna add that because this
is a base install of raspbian so I don't
have anything build essential okay -
essential please its spelling did I do a
double I give it my huh huh see this is
the one flaw with doing it this way
instead of like SSA yes I can't copy and
paste so I actually have to type it long
for him here folks so Jeff and Sasha did
I put an M instead of an N gosh yeah let
it be known that I will actually paste
these commands into the description
below and in the meantime I'm going to
accelerate the video for your sake at
home so that we can jump right through
this typing procedure here we go
okay and if I hit enter and typed
everything correctly
hey nice look at that okay do you want
to install some of the things that are
missing you and hit enter and that's
going to grab those from those
repositories that we just recently
updated and that's going to download
those and install them on my Raspberry
Pi so that the Raspberry Pi
microcomputer can now communicate over I
squared C to that sensor and do all
kinds of magic okay all right let's get
this done next step here we go okay so
next up we're gonna go into our temp
folder which is CD /tmp because that's
where I'm gonna put anything that I just
need to you know download once run it
and install it and then discard it I
don't need to keep any cruft laying
around on my computer so let's get clone
and we're gonna get cloned github.com
slash Adafruit slash Adafruit Python
GPIO
and that is case-sensitive here we go
[Laughter]
you're doing great Ravi
thanks my friend a firm like the world's
tiniest keyboard and he's got very big
thumbs I don't think you spoke it right
Oh see the keyboard is actually doing
those extra keystrokes because that is
sure not me and here we go hitting Enter
now boom now I've got that folder on my
in my temp folder so CD space a tab and
that's a capital A and then hit enter
and I'm good to go now I'm gonna go
Python and we actually want to install
the drivers for this particular device
so set up dot pi and then space install
just like that and then if I typed
everything right hit enter here we go
it's grabbing everything that it needs
to install that board and it's ready to
go now okay so now that that's installed
i'm going to go pip which is a python
installing program install and a couple
of more dependencies color spelt the way
the canadian AKA british way with a you
so don't forget that we're gonna install
color and then Adafruit Adafruit ad a F
are you IT with a capital A and then
underscore and then a M capitals g8
eight X X that's our board that's our
sensor that's what we want to actually
set up here and I'm going to hit enter
it's all going to be fabulous here we go
it's grabbing those packages off the
internet through pip and installing them
setting them up getting our sensor ready
to go and we're set we've got to take a
really quick break but when we come back
we're going to install the final bit and
we're gonna see if what we've done here
today is in fact going to allow us to
see through everything you're such a
tease the soul of heat I want to see if
we can see temperature stick around not
type a hundred and eighty words per
minute on this but as Jeff mentioned
this is working pretty well
yes it's a little bit slow going yeah it
works really really well for my
Raspberry Pi projects if you had that
say up on a TV screen you don't have to
worry about the Bluetooth like the mouse
and the keyboard like it's got a mouse
built-in everything is all built-in so
on my Raspberry Pi system I've actually
got a mouse controller here that I'm
actually just doing with a touch sensor
just like on your laptop Yeah right so
that's pretty have a remote like this
that's that we use for our Android box
but it's bluetooth and it does not
perform anywhere No nicely is this oh
okay yeah I stayed away from the
Bluetooth for that very reason Jeff just
because I really wanted to make sure you
go up on the wrong
and makes me go I wish this was an
affiliate link
hey shop on Amazon and use our affiliate
links category five dot TV slash
partners okay so final step we're gonna
we're gonna actually get the packages
that have some software because we don't
want to code the whole thing ourselves
tonight I mean could you imagine right
but there are packages from Adafruit
that are available like example software
to be able to test this system so let's
actually make that happen so I'm gonna
actually jump into my my user folder so
if I type CD what did it do
CD and then tilde squiggly sure no such
folder or directory okay let's jump into
my home folder home and then there
should be a folder called pie that's
where I want to go so that's fine I'm
route right now I could put it wherever
I want it but let's put it into pie and
that's going to give us access to it
we're gonna get clone again so I'm gonna
actually go get clone and this time
we're gonna get those example projects
from Adafruit underscore AMG 88 xx
Python dot get so get clone HD
here we go I've got it all typed in
there folks github.com slash Adafruit
slash out of fruit underscore am g88 X X
underscore Python dot get I think I need
a capital P on Python as well don't
worry you can copy and paste this from
the calm from the description there we
go it got it okay so CD add a fruit tab
enter CD which has changed directory
examples enter okay like you driving
it's true yeah okay now I want to type
Python and let's choose one of our
applications so in our examples folder
if I hit tab a couple times I can see
the examples that exist so I want to try
like pixels test so P IX e LS test and
then hit enter this is going to show me
hey is it actually seeing the sensor yes
those are the sensors wonderful so it's
actually refreshing over and over and
over again it's grabbing individual
thermal sensors from sixty-four sensors
now if you put say a hot light bulb over
the sensor with those numbers start
changing yes so it's like the matrix
it's like if you put your hand there and
be like oh that's a hand right if you
knew what the numbers meant so those are
actual numbers representing the
temperature that each of those 64
sensors is picking up on an 8x8 grid but
what it shows us it's useless
information to me as a human but it
shows me that it is picking up thermal
data right so if I put something hot
over it yes those numbers are going to
go up because those are that means 50 15
degrees Jeff
okay so put my hand over go put your
hand over it sorry I'm I am okay he's
warming
his hands yeah okay I don't if you can
hear this I'm so I'm like rubbing my
hands three two one go hand is over 38
degrees 37 okay take your hand away and
his hand is away sixteen what yeah so
that's exactly they're really easy to
please folks okay okay 16 degrees 16 and
15 and Sasha's hand is over at 20 20 yes
you really are like four degrees warmer
okay can you see I'm like the friction
is just burning okay so 17 and Jeff go
and go 29:36 31 30 so
oh yeah it's making a difference right
so those sensors are picking up those
thermal prints and you guys can't see
but he's actually rubbing his hands
together and putting them over top of
the sensor coming has Alex that sensor
is right there okay wow this is not how
I saw si going Wow okay let's take the
next step okay so we know it works that
is that makes me feel good yeah I mean I
feel like hey I I soldered stuff and it
works it actually senses the thermal did
you sense how cold her hands were yeah
yeah so it's sensing the temperatures on
64 that was impressive
thermal sensors right so now let's jump
back over here let's check out what
other examples we have so python and tab
tab and those are the available options
to us so let's actually let's have some
fun and say let's grab in an average
thermal temperature thermistor right so
the thermistor test is going to show me
the average temperature that it is
seeing okay I think about that for a
second this is wirelessly picking up the
temperature so hold this over like a hot
processor yeah and the thermistor test
is going to give me the average
temperature the
seeing so it's basically for the cost of
this sensor and a Raspberry Pi I've
created something that I can wirelessly
tell temperatures which is on on
surfaces yeah I can tell a surface
temperature wirelessly from inches above
it let's see what this actually tells us
so I'm gonna hit enter
boom thermistor temp is twenty-one point
eight eight Jeff do you want to put your
hand in there yeah yeah get rubbin okay
so I'm gonna actually show that camera
so that show them where you're putting
your hand here Jeff oh so you're just
put your hand over that above that okay
so I'm gonna go and three two one go
enter 21.8 okay same same thermal
reading 21.8 give me some more heat home
guys come on work it up good man
oh my goodness it hurts tell me when all
right it's three two one Chico 21.9 okay
so that tells me something interesting
so my assumption was incorrect okay it's
not an average it's an actual thermistor
sensor on the circuit board awesome okay
so it has like so that's room
temperature so that's my room
temperature so now I don't leave my
hands for no absolutely nothing
it was actually really just burped for
the sake of just getting just to see if
he would do it so so now I'm able to to
read not only visual sensor data from
from the sensor not visual but thermal
data from the sensor itself but there's
also a thermistor on the on the circuit
board that's giving me room temperature
C so it's an additional sensor so I mean
if you had this inside a server room
yeah this would be a great thing where
you could just log in from anywhere to
around be like oh what's my server room
doing and oh by the way how's our
specific computer doing alright if
you've got to focus on that could be you
could yeah yeah absolutely but imagine
if you built it into the chassis of your
computer and pointed it down at the at
the main board right so now it's telling
you the ambient temperature with the
thermistor which we just learned and
it's also going to tell you the thermal
data
from 64 sensors 8x8 grid that it's able
to pick up below it right that's our
final test is it going to work if I was
to actually generate visual data from
those 64 sensors are we ready yes do I
have to burn my hands again I think that
would be best
okay so there is a test they're called
thermal cam what do you think that does
hopefully at picture thermal cam dot pi
Jeff is over there he's ready don't rub
your hands together dude your hands are
warmer than smacking men in black I've
got no more like okay so put your hand
oh just don't don't even rub them
together just poke it over top all right
and okay just do it I want to see your
hand in the in the normal camera so
people can see what you're actually
doing and Here I am over here I'm gonna
bring up the cam and there we are
oh okay Jeff can you see my hand moving
can you move can you move your hand
above a little bit okay that's like your
palm put it right over the sensor though
you're kind of outside okay oh oh yes
better yes yes okay individual fingers
yeah so that's a finger got me fooled
Wow there you have it hello my ring is
on my hand are you seeing a difference
between the ring and the skin I see like
a hole in your hand really we're using
the thermal sensor to pick up a hand is
not really the perfect example however I
do have a lighter with me and I'm just
gonna light that up right in front of
the sensor here let's see what happens
look at that I don't know which
direction is up and down there we go so
that's the flame right there I'm gonna
actually light this little tea light
candle which is frozen so I froze this
tea light candle just for the sake of
the demonstration you know like that
there we are so you can see that on the
camera now I'm going to set that down
and we'll move that just a little bit
and here we go gonna point that at the
yeah gonna point the sensor at that
candle now without lighting it on fire
and there you go
how cool is that so you're gonna be able
to pick up so when you point that at a
Raspberry Pi or something like that
you're gonna actually see that red heat
where the CPU is getting really hot we
hear like a Raspberry Pi 4 gets really
hot right right well does it let's find
out we hear that if you spend a little
bit more and buy a case that has fans it
will dissipate the heat very very well
well does it where's our proof now now
we can't know if there is proof that I'm
hot that's all that he came out here to
do folks the internet knows just just
say you know hot shows up on the heat
sensor that's exactly what hey you can
get one of those sensors from cat5 TV /
thermal just so that you have find the
same thing that I bought yeah but all it
is is just an Arduino sensor that is
connected to a Raspberry Pi through I
squared C that will work on any any
single board computer practically I mean
you could even use it on a on an Arduino
itself but where it's advantageous for
us to put it on a Raspberry Pi or a no
Droid or a pine 64 board is that we can
install a desktop Linux so that we can
do visuals is there a way to connect
that to a cabled system so that you have
a portable sensor how do you mean Jeff
well like it's connected to HDMI right
now switch over to it and you can see it
right but say you can get a 6-foot cable
that you can connect the sensor to so
that you've got your Raspberry Pi yeah
and like you can go into your computer
and be like oh yeah that components
really hot and over here it's not like
would it be something that could be
assistive that way yeah why not but then
again because it can be connected to a
Raspberry Pi zero yeah you know you
could you could build something that is
very very tiny and portable now what
you're gonna run into because a 3.3
volts pulling on the VIN right so so if
you had like a length of say Ethernet
cable and you use that to power it on
like ten foot distance you may have
degradation on the 3.3 volt channel so
you're gonna you're gonna have maybe 2.5
volts and then you're gonna have to put
some resistors into the chain so that
you don't fry your Raspberry Pi you're
gonna have to do some fan dangling there
you're gonna have to bump up the power
so you may need to supplement the power
maybe push 5 volts and then down step it
something like that so you got it you've
got a plan for those things but yeah it
could be you could put it anywhere and
you can connect it however you want as
long as you wire it incorrectly it might
not work with the current diagram that I
created which is really really simple
now with the screw the screen up there
do you see not only just the visual of
it but does it give you an indication of
what the temperatures are that you're
seeing well that is so that that test
script which right now doesn't show
anything because there's nothing hot
above the sensor right that is
interpreting the data that we saw there
when the numbers were coming up on this
or just creating it's creating a visual
version of that so it's not actually
seeing that image it's seeing the
temperatures and outputting the text
it's outputting the the thermal data
right and the software that python
software for the cam the thermal cam is
then interpreting it into visual data by
saying okay if it's 60 degrees Celsius
this color it's red if it's 40 degrees
Celsius it's kind of orange so it
interprets that and creates like that I
should have brought your soldering my
soldering iron just was you know there's
all kinds of things that we can do and
we're gonna use it over the course of
the next while here on category 5
technology just to confirm that I'm
still hot I'd like to I'd like to use it
to show off how the the cases the
various cases that we put raspberry PI's
and other micro computers in how they
perform I think that's a really good use
case awesome love are you saying yeah
he's gonna have to like damage I'm sorry
all right
we do have to head over to the newsroom
so Sasha if you are ready I am so it's
coming up in the category 5 TV newsroom
access to Photoshop and other Adobe
software has been cut off in Venezuela
as the firm seeks to comply with US
sanctions
a dog who survived in the rubble left in
the wake of Hurricane Dorian in the
Bahamas has earned its new name miracle
the official Sesame Street online store
along with thousands of other retailers
has been targeted by a credit card
stealing hack en Facebook Sallee Bret
cryptocurrency coalition is falling
apart as eBay Visa MasterCard and stripe
jump ship stick around the full details
are coming up later in the show this is
the category 5 TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories of the slave
Linux bias
I'm Sasha Rickman and here at top
stories were following this week access
to Photoshop and other Adobe software
has been cut off in Venezuela as the
firm seeks to comply with US sanctions
Adobe had moved to a subscription only
model which means users are not able to
buy standalone versions of the latest
Adobe software Adobe said users have
until October 28th to download their
content after which the accounts
themselves will be deactivated it is
unclear whether other technology firms
will follow suit the firm explained
quote the US government issued executive
order one three eight eight for the
practical effect of which is to prohibit
almost all transactions and services
between US companies entities and
individuals to Venezuela to remain
compliant with this order adobe is
deactivating all accounts in Venezuela
and quote it said it had no idea how
long the sanctions would be in effect
but added quote we will continue to
monitor developments closely and will
make every effort to restore services to
Venezuela as soon as it is legally
permissible to do so end quote
it said it was quote unable to issue
refunds and quote because the sanctions
included quote sales services support
refunds credits etc and if it does that
is it just me or does that show a real
potential potentially disastrous
downfall to cloud-based services yeah
six settings like yeah like when a
government of the company that is
manufacturing the software or
distributing the cloud suddenly says hey
sanctions are in place and now they have
to cut off areas of the world that are
their customer base who are paying
customers yes yeah Adobe you've switched
to that model and I immediately switched
away from Adobe yeah right that's me ooh
Microsoft is switching to that model and
and forcibly switching to that model yes
and you know how I feel about that yeah
other companies are following suit but
it's interesting though that you're
seeing these changes in tech that when
they first came out a lot of companies
like hey this is great we're gonna
modernize our services we're gonna make
things more efficient and now you're
seeing the fallout of jumping to
something where it hasn't necessarily
been fully thought-out until you start
seeing the the repercussions of it and
then you go on oh my goodness this has
hurt our user base yeah and so it makes
you wonder if there's value in the cost
standpoint of staying with traditional
in-house hosting but I mean you've then
you've got the security aspect of it
like I know a lot of companies because I
deal with many of them in in my line of
work I don't even know how many you deal
with but a lot of them are going
cloud-based simply for the fact of its
cost savings we know if to worry about
the security infrastructure not our
problem somebody else's problem yeah
but in this case they could be you know
deeply in trouble mm-hmm how do you get
around that it's a really tough thing
and I'm all for hey if I buy software I
want to be able to install it as many
times as I want so I I have Telestream
Wirecast runs our show yes I have an
executive installer that I can install
on my computer if everything failed I
can just reinstall it it's not dependent
on any cloud infrastructure or anything
like that to make it work same thing
with Libre Office or my entire desktop
operating system which is Linux I don't
have to have access to the cloud in
order to be able to use those programs
and and
maybe it would just be nice if if these
companies were to provide on-premise
cloud solutions sure or personally
hosted cloud solutions that's how I
program well that's what I try to do I
think we covered in the news but the
fact that Russia is a Russia's trying to
have their own standalone internet that
it completely is walled from the world I
haven't heard but okay
I think it's Russia but it's something
like that kicks in what happens for
companies that are using cloud-based
services where their internet is
restricted mm-hmm like what happens then
so yeah well I guess we'll see and is is
China like that China is definitely like
that with the Great Firewall yeah sure
but it really comes down to like my
point has always been like this is the
world wide web people those a gallop a
wall a LOD well you know like let's
let's keep it worldwide but and that's
why I think may like this is a final
thought for Robby but maybe maybe maybe
they're gonna end up pushing people to
the dark web they might mean maybe that
could be bad
not necessary well yeah for lack of
control it's the same reason we're all
switching to cryptocurrency it's the
same reason we've got Facebook trying to
bring out Libre because they don't want
to be at the mercy of the government who
says we're gonna cut you off or we're
gonna stop the the transactions the the
the business and certainly in this case
well hey if you could have your software
on on the dark web well then what's to
stop you
yeah let's sure if the cloud was on the
dark web right yeah yeah hmm just as
some crazy food for thought but I think
that will inevitably that's gonna end up
happening that's what the government is
causing right with all of these that's
what they're driving people to need
mm-hmm which is really a disappointing
and scary thing people who don't
understand technology making the
technology decisions that are driving
the people who do understand technology
to make decisions that are separate of
those decision makers that's how that's
an extreme view but that's a debate for
another day it's just a thought it's
just a
thing thought that hey this is probably
that's the answer yeah I know
no doubt some will for sure but I don't
know if you'll like you'll see the
industry move that way but why not like
that's a rhetorical but why not
all it would take is somebody to say oh
yeah it's not bad to move to the dark
web and then I'm sure yeah I don't have
to be on the public web I can be on the
dark web and and I can sell my services
anywhere in the world at any price that
I want in cryptocurrency yeah yeah
that's possible why not hmm
okay our show is moving to the dark web
next week you can watch us in China now
the wake of Hurricane durian in the
miracle was found in his starving state
after being trapped under an
air-conditioner in the town of Marsh
Harbor on the Ibaka Islands it's
believed miracle was trapped for more
than three weeks
hurricane durian struck the Bahamas last
month killing at least 50 people and
leaving hundreds unaccounted for
but through the use of technology some
good is coming of the efforts of a dog
rescue operation out of Florida big dog
ranch rescue founder and president
Laurie Simmons said quote what an
incredible story that we were able to
discover this dog alive after being
trapped for so long end quote
big dog ranch rescue used a drone to
find miracle they were able to detect a
small heat patch and sent rescue workers
trudging through debris to reach the dog
Simmons
urged people to remember that the crisis
in the Bahamas isn't over and that there
are many more animals who are likely
hiding and scared of loud equipment
being used to clear debris the dog
rescue is using technology such as
drones and special recovery teams in
order to locate more animals who might
be trapped under debris in Marsh Harbor
big dog ranch rescue has saved more than
130 dogs in the Bahamas since Hurricane
durian hit in early September and
several dogs have been reunited
with owners the rescue has saved more
than 27,000 dogs since it was founded
more than ten years ago there's more
information available at BD RR dot org
so cool the tech can be used like this I
know what I like about this is just this
week I was looking at rescue dogs in our
area because oh my wife and I are
talking about another dog and there was
a bunch that were rescue dogs from the
hurricane and I was like oh this is cool
here in Canada yeah right in our in our
town
yeah now none of them were miracle but I
do like this because I remember one of
the I think it was the New Orleans yeah
when that flood happened and the dogs
that were found way out in the ocean
living on the Dubrow because it was so
compact yeah I love this this is great
it's like yes more of it yeah drones
with heat sensors are doing so cool like
they're keep popping up in the stories
because they're doing really neat things
yeah and this is consumer accessible
hardware Wow like this is stuff that we
can build our own thermal sensor
all right build it onto a drone and and
send it up into the air and find dogs
that need rescuing it would be neat if
some of those drones had like a harness
that could collect the dog oh now we're
talking like a micro drone oh I'm
thinking a great day seeing that fly
through the air that'd be pretty neat
when dogs fly thanks for your input Jeff
really glad you're here yeah
oK we've got to take a quick break the
crypto report and more of this week's
top stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
stealing hack card details were
collected by a piece of malicious
software dubbed JavaScript cookie the
code was found in shopping cart software
built by Volusion which has 20,000 small
business customers the issue was spotted
by Marcel a forum researcher at security
firm checkpoint while shopping for toys
on the Sesame Street store Volusion said
that it had resolved the issue quote
within a few hours of notification to
end quote although its statement came a
day after the revelations they said
quote we are coordinating with
authorities on this matter and continue
to enhance our systems that detect and
prevent unauthorized access to user
accounts unquote it confirmed that
credit card information had been stolen
but quote not other associated
personally identifying details and quote
adding that it was not aware quote of
any fraudulent activity connected to it
end quote
in his original blog post mr. affirm
said quote the compromise is not only
unique to Sesame Street's store and most
likely any e-commerce website hosted on
Volusion is probably running malicious
code and posting the credit card info of
the consumers to the outsider domain and
quote to other security researchers from
Trend Micro and risk IQ also confirmed
the issue which was reported to both the
developers and some of the retailer's
affected the Sesame Street site was
taken offline at the time and instead
visitors saw a message that read quote
we are currently performing scheduled
maintenance and updates on the website
and quote Volusion provides shopping
cart software to thousands of merchants
and according to mr. a firm has had 185
million orders placed via its software
amounting to 28 billion dollars in
transactions I have so many like verbal
memes running
along here tell me how to get to your
credit card info yeah four five one no I
mean this is truly unfortunate because I
mean at the end of the day because of
the nature of Sesame Street now granted
that wasn't the target
it was the wall service that's where it
was discovered but but that's right but
the fact is you're talking about
families who have most likely families
who've purchased things for their kids
so you're you're targeting now credit
cards of families that likely high bills
struggling to make ends meet like that's
the unfortunate thing to use
realistically if I was struggling to pay
my bills I would not be shopping
directly on the Sesame Street store
where everything is three times the
price just saying just saying why I'm
here why do we keep them around but okay
but the interesting thing about this
story is the fact that they've said it's
it's not just Sesame Street it's the
whole yes service has anybody else
notice this like oh for sure I mean you
would say whoa it's now public knowledge
yeah are the users right so you think
about like and this again like we go
back to cloud-based services right so
you think like and I don't want a name
name so if names are coming to mind and
I don't want to say any because then
someone will say oh well Robby said that
you know this particular but you think
about cloud services that you utilize
day-to-day and what happens if one of
those cloud services gets compromised
and that's what's happened with Volusion
so because of that this injected code in
their cloud software now everybody who
utilizes it all of them are affected so
thousands and thousands of online shops
yeah collecting credit card credit card
yeah and sending it to bad guys right is
there a way if you are an e-commerce
purchaser to determine what service is
being used
as a customer yeah that's tough because
realistically Jeff the payment
processing occurs at the final step
right right so so I'm gonna take your
information first on my server and then
I'm gonna throw you over through like a
an ajax query or possibly like a PHP
redirect if i'm using PHP or but
generally it's gonna be like an ajax
query which is going to happen at the
final step where i've entered my credit
card number and then there's an HTTP
query or possibly a WebSocket that's
opened up to be able to query that data
from the payment processor so right
Volusion PayPal maneras TD whoever
they're using right so Volusion being
that processor now how do I know if
they've got something on there and
that's compromised right so
realistically no yeah that's tough and
that's why it was a smart hack yeah
because they they got it your best bet
is really don't use a high limit
accessible credit card when you're
shopping online just don't do it
good call advice yeah I've even made the
suggestion people have said to me you
know how do i because I sell online
right how do I know that you're legit
what happens if you're here look go over
to the drug store get yourself a 15 like
this is a $48 order get yourself a $50
MasterCard just a prepaid you know and
then come back to me and process your
order you don't have to worry about it
there's online services that allow you
to do that whether that you know here
nor there
yeah there are services that allow you
to do that I'm guilty right now I make
online purchases with my urges regular
old day-to-day credit card but it's in
my mind and I really need to do it to
just get a little pay-as-you-go load it
up yeah it's smart
I set a daily limit on my card so that
and I call my bank and you know turn off
the tap set the daily limit and and so I
make them do these things so that I have
to be the one who makes that decision
yeah so if I want to make a ten thousand
dollar purchase well I have to make that
phone call right and it only takes me
ten like maybe five ten minutes to do
that but it's worth
of mine oh yeah otally worth it it
wasn't covered in the story but it'd be
interesting to know what happens with
Visa Debit or like those credit card
based debit cards and if through this
hack they have access to bank accounts
no no no no no but like you know you can
go to any major bank and get it yeah
like a credit card debit card where it
works online purchases like a credit
card but it comes out of your bank
account so thinking about that Jeff so
and for those of you who have ever
thought oh my debit card has a visa logo
on it now so I can use that for online
purchases that's smart
right no because if you bought through a
Volusion powered website they now have
your debit card which continually gets
your money all the time right so every
time you deposit your paycheck they can
now withdraw it see so just don't do it
this is one of those things yeah there's
stupid peace of mind in credit cards
having the insurance and they really do
refund when something goes awry yeah
whereas not with your debit yet banks
are a whole different kettle of fish
interestingly enough this happened with
my wife's Visa Debit about six months
ago where there was a bunch of purchases
in California suddenly showing up
somebody spent about three hundred
dollars and she's like what is going on
within probably twelve hours she had her
money back which was great but same deal
because it was connected to her bank
account she's like okay let's disconnect
that feature don't you there's nothing
she do yeah that's some wisdom for you
and for those of you who are watching
live and in discord yeah I mean hymens I
agree but I don't want to say it on air
because then it's an endorsement
definitely some good services there and
and some interesting stuff to check out
so take a look at those services that
are being talked about because yes there
are services out there that will allow
you to get temporary or even limited
credit card numbers that are virtual
yeah so I can say okay my Amazon
credit-card number which is a virtual
credit-card number has a 100 dollar
limit if anyone ever compromises Amazon
the most they'll get is a hundred bucks
yeah right so that's where those types
of services that are being discussed in
the in the discord come in for those of
you who are watching live I just simply
can't endorse them live on the air
that's all right now if you're just
gonna like throw money by the wayside
and switch right over to cryptocurrency
the next area will interest you no good
good
Facebook's Libra cryptocurrency
Coalition is falling apart as eBay Visa
MasterCard and stripe jump ship the news
came just one week after PayPal
announced its withdrawal as government
regulators continue to scrutinize the
plans eBay stripe MasterCard Visa and
Mercado Pedro have all dropped out of
Facebook's Libre cryptocurrency projects
in statements following the news the
companies said they respect ANSI
potential in the project but have chosen
to focus on other efforts a stripe
spokesperson said in a statement that
the company quote is supportive of
projects that aim to make online
commerce more accessible for people
around the world and quote stripe will
quote remain open to working with the
Liebherr Association at a later stage
the spokesperson stead a Visa
spokesperson said the company quote will
continue to evaluate Libra saying our
ultimate decision will be determined by
a number of factors including the
associations ability to fully satisfy
all requisite regulatory expectations
visas continued interest in Libra stems
from our belief that well regulated
blockchain based networks could extend
the value of secure digital payments to
a greater number of people in places
particularly in emerging and developing
markets unquote the original coalition
of 28 corporate backers of the Libra
cryptocurrency seems to be dwindling as
lawmakers continue to question how it
will impact sovereign currencies and how
the project's leaders can ensure the
consumers protection pay you is now the
only payments company continuing to back
the cryptocurrency
beyond payment processors though
original backers uber and lyft said that
there has been no change to their
involvement in the project the hackers
the backers abandoning the project may
have found safety in numbers after
PayPal announced its exit news that eBay
stripe and MasterCard were each dropping
out quickly following one another
indicating all three had likely been
thinking about leaving during the same
period the decisions came ahead of a
planned Libre Association Council
meeting which was held on Monday
liebherr libras cryptocurrency project
took center stage in front of us
lawmakers once again as key Facebook
staff testified in front of the House
Financial Services Committee that
same-day booking Holdings confirmed it
is also leaving the Libra Association
making it the seventh company to exit so
far leaving 21 of the original 28
backers David Marcus who leaves the
Libra project and was previously the
president of PayPal weighed in on
Twitter saying quote I would caution
against reading the fate of Libra into
this update of course it's not great
news in the short-term but in a way it's
liberating stay tuned for more very soon
change of this magnitude is hard you
know you're onto something when so much
pressure builds up and close the Libra
Association the nonprofit in charge of
managing the cryptocurrency
says that it is still looking to move
forward interesting and funny in a way
and kind of sad but remember two weeks
ago we were like I have faith that Libra
is gonna happen because visa backs
adapter card back said like whoa we're
out and like why like who who approached
those companies and said get out or you
know like yeah no it wasn't me but I I
mean I have been not a fan of this from
the beginning from the initial
announcement and and so to me this feels
kind of gratifying
in a very selfish way uh-huh but you
know it doesn't mean that it's you know
like here's the swan song for libri but
the fact is there's a lot of challenges
that have to be overcome and I think the
fact that people are going okay you know
what I'm out I'm just gonna watch these
in assignment processors these are the
ones who would be able to transact right
with Libra but the fact that they're
saying I'm out I'm not I'm not in on
this yet I'm gonna watch it that is I
think encouraging because it means
they're going right interesting idea I
still like the idea but the way it's
going isn't gonna fly with me right and
so that opens the door to say okay how
can this change and evolve to be the
system that is trustworthy that is going
to be relied upon so that society in
general who's gonna use it can go I'm
there the only way that can happen now
is that Visa MasterCard and all of them
get together and say Facebook you're out
yes I agree if Facebook was completely
out of this mm-hmm it would be a totally
different story and I think even from
the regulatory oversight and the
scrutiny that it's getting right now
you'd have less of it it's simply
because Facebook is a heat score would
this be a whole different story if we
could rewind time and they tried to
launch this before the the analytic
escape yes it would work yeah because
that was when everybody loved Facebook
everybody trusted Facebook and now
Facebook is tainted yes so now anything
from a business perspective though I
think Facebook yeah has made this dumb
decision where they should be following
in the steps of Google what is it
alphabet Inc yes yeah right it's
alphabet say like because if all of this
had come to fruition and Libra this new
cryptocurrency that's going to be backed
by real commodities if this came about
by some company that we'd never heard of
right that hey Facebook Inc could have
created but if we didn't make that
connection right away maybe there'd be
an instant like whoa this is interesting
and a whole new spin on
the whole thing but I think the
difference is that it wouldn't a mr.
bank but they put their name on it right
and that is instant distrust from
society yes right and that's what I mean
like if Facebook was not involved in
this I think he'd be having a very
different conversation about it I know I
would if it were launched by Visa or
MasterCard or like that would be
different I don't know I mean they're
all in it for the money right so are
they looking at it and saying welcome
Ifrah I don't blame them can we
I mean I can't blame somebody for being
in it for the money sure the fact is
it's because it's Facebook that
instantly you lose some of that trust
and faith but if this thing actually
takes off and it's great you pay is
laughing all the way to the bank
absolutely speaking of obscure payment
processors that nobody's heard of yes
they are they're in yeah right really
their investment and their time and
their and finances really because really
if you were investing in any
cryptocurrency right now the most stable
cryptocurrency happens to be Libre yes
at zero and according to coin gecko the
market looks like this while everything
is down except surprisingly amidst this
news Libra is holding steady at zero
because they're not trading yet that's
the irony okay Bitcoin is down to seven
thousand four hundred forty seven
dollars and seventy six cents losing a
whopping 1139 bucks over the past two
weeks so like that's pretty significant
know that pardon me over the last one
week because even though we didn't
broadcast last week the numbers were
recorded for last week yes so so you
know it is it's it's volatile yep
litecoin also down at forty nine dollars
and fifteen cents losing ten bucks
aetherium at 159 ninety losing 3152 u.s.
Manero has also lost a bit fifty two
dollars and sixty cents us now Scala is
again still going down yes Scala is
still on the descend I I you gotta pull
life support on this thing no I don't
know when do we remove it right we'll
see we'll see but it's still ahead of
turtle coin but turtle coin is more
stable so Scala being one of the micro
coins that we're tracking Scala is at
zero point twenty to ten thousandth of a
cent losing point one ten thousandth of
a cent turtle coin lost only point zero
for ten thousands of a cent in the past
week and is sitting at zero point two
one ten thousandth of a cent so Fiat
wise Scala is valued a little bit higher
but as far as consistency consistency
goes we're seeing that turtle coin is a
little more stable those are the micro
coins they're easy to invest in they're
easy to mine so if you want to get
involved in Florence you start there
yeah they're a lot of fun because of
great communities as well but do
remember whatever you're gonna do in the
cryptocurrency market whether you're
gonna buy and vast mine or any way that
you become involved in cryptocurrency
remember that it's volatile it's an ever
running market so 24/7
it can change so it doesn't matter what
time of day or night it is everything
could go up or down and can happen very
quickly and very largely yes would you
mind just like on a Raspberry Pi but
powered by like a solar panel so there's
like just get turtle quite like powered
by this wall you're gonna get about nine
hashes per second so but I know much
right but still I mean little GPU and
your computer for 200 bucks and you'll
pay for it within about six months and
you're gonna be mining and making a
hundred bucks every every six months you
know yeah so I mean whatever how long
was i mining turtle coin on my PI and
that I moved to the Odroid oh yes yeah
yeah there was a millionaire I checked
my pockets in a very long time yeah no
clue hmm well hey that's that's the
story very very cool
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Jeff Weston thanks for tuning in
everybody we've got to take a really
quick break stick around and that we
have folks next week it's our Halloween
special so besides the crazy surprise
costumes that you're gonna see here on
the set and yes Lots planned it's gonna
be incredible besides that we're gonna
be showing you the ultimate UPS system
for a Raspberry Pi microcomputer and I'm
talking an I squared C connected UPS
that is about this big and is going to
connect directly to your Raspberry Pi
it's gonna automatically shut it down if
the power is running too low and of
course the battery is gonna keep it
powered up for much longer during a
blackout as well so you don't want to
miss out on that we're gonna be showing
you that device coming next week in the
meantime have a wonderful week everybody
thanks for joining us we'll see you
