here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom Raspberry Pi for having
problems with Wi-Fi when connected to
High Definition displays someone
pretended to be mayor and the government
gave him a dot-gov domain google has
confirmed that a flaw that allowed
hackers to take control of Android phone
cameras microphones and GPS locations
without the owner's permission has been
fixed and a Smart Watch advertised as a
way to help parents keep track of their
children and give them peace of mind can
be turned into a frightening
surveillance device stick around the
full details are coming up later in the
show this is the category-five TV
newsroom covering the week stop texting
with a slight linux bias
I
sascha Rickman joined this week by Jeff
Weston all right some quick honorable
mentions this week Google wants to bring
Android as close as possible to the
mainline Linux kernel a new breed of
arm-based smartphones including the
Librium 5 and the pine phone are
targeting mainline Linux support as a
feature and Google is clearly thinking
along the same lines
switching Android to run on the machine
line Linux kernel would be a huge
undertaking one that would inevitably
require major technical and political
changes to the way that the Linux kernel
is currently developed instead of each
Android device shipping its own device
specific Linux kernel Google's idea is
to upstream as much code as possible in
short as reporter rana Amedeo sums up
Google wants to decouple the Linux
kernel from its hardware support and
Apple will have to face the law for it
distributing crappy keyboards love it
Apple has been trying to stop a
class-action lawsuit over faulty MacBook
keyboards Federal Judge Edward Davila
has tossed out the attempt the lawsuit
accuses Apple of not only hiding the
fragility of MacBook butterfly'
keyboards but also failing to provide an
effective fix or full compensation for
customers who paid for repairs
the lawsuit covers many Apple laptops
with butterfly keyboards starting with
the original 12-inch MacBook from 2015
and including MacBook Pro models
produced in 2016 and later let's get
into the stock top stories for following
this week raspberry pi 4 are having
High Definition displays can't connect
your raspberry pi 4 to Wi-Fi try a lower
resolution or a different HDMI cable
developer andrey Kozeny reported quote
if the Raspberry Pi 4 outputs HDMI at a
resolution of 2560 by 1440 the Wi-Fi
stops working end quote
others have noted that the loss of 2.4
gigahertz Wi-Fi when using just 1080p
resolution but were able to solve it by
switching to the 5 gigahertz band there
are reports that Wi-Fi performance is
significantly degraded with monitors
connected to HDMI 0 there is less
degradation
when the monitor is connected to HDMI
one if you're experiencing this problem
the current recommendation is to use the
HDMI port the lowest resolution possible
do not use Wi-Fi or wait for the next
hardware iteration that will hopefully
fix the issue oh dear I got I got a say
I mean I've never been a fan of
Raspberry Pi Wi-Fi plain and simple so
if I was using it as a multimedia PC I'm
gonna go with Ethernet anyways
especially now that they've got kik
event but to think that now there's this
issue that's cropped up and it's
surprising that it didn't come up before
now because Raspberry Pi 4 has been
marketed as being like the desktop PC of
SBC's and of course the home theater PC
of SBC's as well that's how they've
marketed marketed it even though there
are more powerful boards out there but
Wi-Fi is kind of critical when you're
doing a home theater PC it really is and
I mean this isn't an interesting problem
to have where it's based on a specific
port that's video based I mean we're
talking HDMI but suddenly when you're
running at a really high resolution it
kicks out your Wi-Fi and only on a
certain band
it feels - it feels to me like
interference which is like isn't this
FCC compliant like that's that's how it
feels to me it should be but I mean
there's been a number of issues now with
the Raspberry Pi 4 and it makes me
wonder like how did this stuff get
missed in the QC aspect of it yeah
certainly the USBC issue comes to mind
where it's not a compliant USB C port
right that's a big problem so you have
to have specific cables in order to
charge or to power it is this a newly
developing problem like will they be
able to fix it with an upgrade then or
you know I don't know sash I it seems to
me like like I say it sounds like an
interference issue which sounds like
something that they would have to do
hardware improvements in order to fix
that and I don't know that it's a new
issue it's just that somebody finally
made the connection that the Wi-Fi
dropping out is
with regards to to the HDMI output as
you mentioned somebody had noticed that
if you switch to five gigahertz versus
2.4 gigahertz it seemed to have better
connectivity when you're connected to
HDMI so really I mean it's actually a
good news story that if all of them were
having this problem at least there's a
bit of a workaround oh sure right yeah
yeah but then you do lose one out like
you're now missing out on an HDMI port
on your bike yeah you are so yeah and
there's a fine line I mean I think with
single board computers - we there there
are two sides of the user base there's
the side that I am which is I know that
it's a single board computer I feel like
it's groundbreaking and earth-shattering
and the technology has been condensed
from the supercomputer into a
pocket-sized device and I'm so impressed
and if there's problems I'm okay with
that and I'm like I didn't pay a lot for
this and it's like I'm like on the
bleeding edge of what is next and then
there's the other side that's like I
bought this to have two 4k video outputs
and if I connect them I can't work the
Wi-Fi right and that's the flip side of
it and I can understand that side of it
as well especially for the non techie
the non tinkerer right I'm a tinkerer I
want to play around I don't I don't mind
if things don't always work the way
they're supposed to because I love to
tinker and I love I'm gonna be the one
who buys the next gen because I want to
see how it how it progresses and you and
you know because you know that they
really want excellence that they're just
gonna push in and make it better for the
next gen yeah absolutely but there's
this fine line also with the development
process and the creation of the product
where they're trying to drive down the
price to 25 $35 and if they're gonna do
that with to 4k outputs and better Wi-Fi
and USBC like they're cutting corners
folks like you know they are cutting
corners like crazy to make this thing
happen
so there's
you know there you got it you got to put
things into perspective like that sure
you win a little you lose a little yeah
someone pretended to be a mayor and the
government gave him a dot-gov domain a
security researcher acquired an official
guv
to prove a suspected weakness in the
system which could have been used to
spread fake emergency alerts or obtain
private information about citizens the
researcher posed as the mayor of a small
town with population of less than 6500
people all they had to do was set up a
fake Google Voice number and gmail
address both completely unaffiliated
with the town after that they filled out
an official authorization form which
basically asks for the same contact
information of registrar would require
the documents needed to be printed on
the town government's official
letterhead which the researcher obtained
by searching for other official
documents posted by the town online
according to a town clerk from the
actual town the only inquiry the city
received from the GSA came ten days
after the researchers fake registration
was approved and the GSA only called
after the security researcher revealed
what they've done to a cyber security
reporter who then inquired about the
domain in the short time they had the
domain which has since been revoked the
researcher was able to sign up for
Facebook's law enforcement subpoena
request system which provides law
enforcement and government entities with
personal user records initially thought
gov domain names were only available to
u.s. federal government institutions
they've since been opened up to state
and local governments at the end of
October 2019 a bill was introduced in
Congress to improve oversight over
government domains by the cyber security
and infrastructure security agency Wow
so they yeah Wow yeah yeah they did that
like you would think if there's somebody
filling out an application for this
before the approval goes in you start
asking questions
but maybe we are we just a society that
relies so much on the information on the
internet that we believe what comes in
an application for that is true yes and
now to be honest these dot of domain
names now that this stories come out
would you then not trust like you should
not trust them you know that people can
I don't know if you could say you can't
trust them cuz I mean if I'm gonna go to
a doc of web site and I mean granted
they're mostly for like we said us and a
lot of that isn't gonna apply
necessarily for use here in Canada well
we we're here in Canada but remember
that most of our viewers are in the
United States even though we have your
servers world yeah perspective sure you
know and we have to be able to dress
that this is trustworthy but I would
think like you're gonna know what you're
looking for I mean it's not like you're
gonna randomly search up like hey this
is no no dude we're taught to trust that
the lock means that it's secure
yes the.gov means that it's an official
government website right so so in this
instance so could they not take the
actual town website and create a
phishing site that now collects your
information and gets you to fill in
forms that gives the hacker this was a
security researcher but what if it was a
hacker thing is that this this is a guy
just trying to expose the suspect ruling
it can be done and he did prove it and I
mean that's good that it it ended well
but it could have ended badly and so
people need to maybe dial it back like
they opened up the dot-gov to maybe more
I guess more complacency by allowing
local government sure the scary thing
about this and I mean maybe it wasn't
random but the fact that one of the
first things that this guy did was then
get access to the Facebook information
why not continue proving the point well
exactly but I mean this this is then
gonna be one of those stories where
people are gonna go Oh Facebook that's
you know it's like no no let's focus on
the real issue here like you you trusted
something that became untrustable
yes untrustworthy whatever this
reporters self-reported right like they
talk to a security expert right it
wasn't like he went hey this is what
I've done like you spoke to somebody who
then inquired that's the only reason
they found out didn't inquire how long
could this have gone on I would have
liked to know I'm hot like I'm happy not
to know really it would be scary but how
far could they have gone could to the
moon there's no answer there's no end
yeah it's it opens up the question how
many other fake Gove's are there out
there yeah so be leery I suppose yeah
where we always have to be careful
always have to be careful folks we've
got to take a quick break the crypto
report and more of this week's top tech
stories are coming up don't go anywhere
[Applause]
you
welcome to the cryptic on my name is
Bart Koenig and I'm reporting to you
from Florida USA I've got into NASA
background and it's probably any year
it's a European one I've been involved
in this industry since 12 2015 and
occupied many roles starting with coding
running team supporting icos and like
most of us also losing money through
trading tokens the crypto corner will be
split in two parts the first one will be
news so what happened during the last
seven days and the second part will be
about special subject this time we'll be
talking about the private key so let's
dive into it the market cap of the
industry has not changed really changed
the last seven days there were some ups
and downs but it is hovering around 200
billion US dollars the Bitcoin market
share is around 66% so those things
haven't really changed what has changed
is some interesting news coming from
several countries first one is India
India for the first time is committing
to do some research on blockchain
technologies to establish a national
framework for blockchain technologies
which is great news because in the past
they have been very negative towards the
crypto industry Germany starting with a
new proposal law that would legalize
banks being able to hold
cryptocurrencies in the past I had to go
through third parties also the holding
through third parties now they will be
hopefully soon allowed to hold them
themselves South Korea South Korea has
been always very positive towards the
crypto industry but they are now working
on a bill that will provide a legal
foundation for cryptocurrencies so
that's going to be interesting because I
said the leading edge and they they have
been always very positive in this
industry other news is up it the
exchange went through
was hacked last week and they stole 340
mm ether those are known where they are
so the wallets are known although what
they don't know who the people are
behind them but remains to be seen what
will happen with those either the big
exchanges they all set they're not going
to trade those either into any other
cryptocurrencies or interfered BitFenix
becomes the first major exchange to
enable Bitcoin lightning support which
is interesting because as you know
Bitcoin lightning is the second layer
application on the Bitcoin platform
which is equivalent to or they want to
have it equivalent to a visa payment
platform in regards to speed and also
fees and then balance is rolling out the
theorem futures so previously you could
do trade only Bitcoin futures and now
you'll have also the possibility to
trade in if your futures subject of the
week is the private key the private key
is an essential part of a cryptocurrency
and it ultimately defines who the owner
of a coin or token is let me give you an
example if you purchase some tokens
through an exchange and you leave them
on the exchange when those tokens are
not yours they belong to the crip to the
exchange only once you transfer those
tokens over to your wallet like let's
say for example Exodus or treasure or
ledger and then those tokens will be
yours and that's defined through the
private keys I always make sure that you
are in possession of the private key and
the easiest way to do that is through a
wallet like Exodus as mentioned Exodus
treasure or ledger and that's it from me
so I'll see you next week and thank you
for watching thank you Robert and for
those of you watching we do not provide
financial advice about cryptocurrency
this is more so just an FYI for you so
you know what's happening in the crypto
markets
Google has confirmed that a flaw that
allowed hackers to take control of
Android phone cameras microphones and
GPS location without the owner's
permission has been fixed the flaw was
identified by security firm checkmarks
which found quote multiple concerning
vulnerabilities and quote in the Google
camera app that enabled them to spy on
its users the issue which also affected
Samsung meant that hundreds and millions
of smartphone users were at risk
according to the firm its team found
that by quote manipulating specific
actions and intents an attacker can
control the app to take photos or record
videos through a rogue application that
has no permission to do so end quote
check marks also found that certain
scenarios enabled hackers to access
stored videos and photos or to see GPS
metadata embedded in photos that would
locate a user the firm was able to
access these vulnerabilities using a
mock-up weather app that only required
basic storage permissions from an
Android user according to the firm
storage permissions are very broad and
give access to the entire SD card after
identifying the flaw the firm notified
Google which after researching the
report found that the vulnerabilities
were quote not specific to the pixel
product line and that the impact was
much greater and extended into the
broader Android ecosystem and quote the
tech giant has since fixed the
vulnerabilities and thanked the security
firm for identifying the issue Samsung
has also released patches to fix the
issue since it was discovered that's a
scary story yes I mean I am always won
whenever I download an app I look at all
the permissions and there are times
where if I'm looking at two different
comparable apps yes you know in the
Android store will tell me what
permissions doesn't require and I will
go with the one that has less access to
my phone but I have noticed with the
access to file storage that
is everything and that's been one of my
chief complaints and I would love to see
on a future update that access to
storage permissions is broken down to
save only access only specific areas
like I would like to see more definition
with that so these kind of things
hopefully don't happen as often right so
yeah the park that's scary is the fact
that it would look like you're not
giving that much permission it's just
for one thing right but the one thing is
everything yeah exactly and that's you
know with all the apps that people are
producing and I mean we just went
through this with my kids because I
found
they've been downloading apps that I had
on their phones right why why and what
actually alerted us to it is my daughter
asked me I mean she's eight yeah she
asked me to you know to do something on
her phone with our dog and I pop like I
go to load the screen like full-blown on
adult pictures from spyware no man using
this on her phone I'm going come on what
have you downloaded and and she's like
oh I I thought like I didn't know and
I'm like this is my daughter yes because
of these apps that she's downloaded that
I we had no clue so I mean we've fixed
everything but I'm thinking come on like
we have to be more aware of what we
download and there's so much stuff
within the app stores that just want
access to your fallen ancing yeah I have
found that week after week reading
stories like this I download a whole lot
less I don't my device I yeah I know the
ones I like and I trust I don't need to
be entertained by my phone so I don't
download entertaining apps for those of
you who are watching this on your phone
ignore everything that she's saying but
it's scary right because you see you
know different apps are popping up in
the news and they're doing and they
could seem so benign but they're doing
such harm
yeah so I guess the best thing to do is
really just stay on top of
yeah well I mean I at least do what
you're doing
read through what permissions right at
least do that and then also hope like
for example this has been patched since
since it was the vulnerability was
released right so you just had kind of
have to hope for the good at all okay a
SmartWatch advertised as a way to help
parents keep track of their children and
give them peace of mind can be turned
into a frightening surveillance device
researchers at the av-test Institute
have uncovered gaping privacy and
security holes in the SMA - watch touch
dot - M - Smart Watch the security
lapses are so severe that the
researchers were able to piece together
a snapshot of the life and daily habits
of a randomly selected ten year old girl
from Germany among other data the
Chinese made device exposed the girl's
name age place of residence where she
spends most of her day and the route she
takes the researchers could even access
the sound messages that were transmitted
to her device and that's still not all
they were even able to monitor her
real-time GPS position obviously the
security shut shortcomings didn't affect
just that single device the team said it
could gain access to the location phone
number photos and conversations of well
over 5,000 children and was quick to
note the number of affected users might
in fact be far higher the researchers
found that in addition to communication
with the manufacturers server being
unencrypted the online interface of the
manufacturers server was completely
unsecured leaving it entirely open to
external on author ID access
unauthorized access although an
authorization token was generated to
prevent unauthorized access the server
does not validate it which essentially
means anyone with enough hacking skills
should have no problem in accessing user
IDs this allows potential attackers to
have the same access that a parent would
have this lapse in security was found to
affect users in Germany Turkey Poland
Mexico Belgium Hong Kong Spain the
Netherlands
China Jeff you don't look pleased yeah I
think as a parent I mean isn't it tough
to think that hey this device that I
bought for man I didn't but rhetorical
did I buy for my child so that I can
kind of keep track of where they are and
if they get lost in a mall I can find
them and to realize that there has been
little to no security consideration it
feels like a violation by the company
who manufactures this and that you are
collecting and allowing this data to be
accessible but putting no effort into
the actual security and protection and
and as a software developer myself that
is my first consideration yeah I've had
payment processing websites that come to
me and they said well why is it so
expensive and I said because my first
consideration is the security of the
data of your customers and that has to
be the way it is yes you know there's so
many comments I could make with this and
it as a parent this this makes me feel
ill well yeah I mean I would love to
have you know fun tech stuff for my kids
and I mean oddly enough for Cyber Monday
and Black Friday we were looking at
getting smartwatches for our kids ones
that provided these kind of capabilities
but I couldn't pull the trigger because
I didn't recognize the brands they
weren't reputable sources they were good
deals yeah they weren't reputable names
and I'm going hi can you trust this
right and I mean I hear stories like
this and I'm like you know what it's
time to go off the grid really good idea
it's a really good concept I mean in my
line of work it would be really good for
people with dementia or you know or
children it's really good to monitor the
safety of people who are vulnerable
however these people are vulnerable and
it's really bad to exploit that I mean
either with malicious intent
or or just complacency right I don't
like one when an idea is good like this
it needs to be followed up with the
security that you know Robbie provides
thank you now this brings up a like a
notification alert question within my
head like I'm listening to this I'm
going and I'm thinking okay Robbie is a
security guy maybe you can weigh in on
this if you have a company that quite
frankly doesn't care they've been
exposed for this issue and they don't
care for them it's about pumping out a
device that is going to generate money
for them and if it fails whatever
they'll just open it up under a new name
and do it again as a parent who goes
this is a great option but they may not
be watching for these kind of alerts
yeah how as a parent do you catch the
vulnerabilities with a device like this
if the company decides they're not going
to alert you like yeah do it does the
industry have an alert system where all
this stuff gets pushed out that a parent
can go I may not understand it but I
know that this alert says that product
all right I understand what you're
saying like you know like when there's a
tainted produce at the grocery store and
there's a huge recall I heard a recall
today and it's like the the product that
was recalled expired yesterday so anyone
who bought it has already eaten it or
thrown it away anyways right what good
is that stand point for tech stuff from
what parents can sign up for general
alerts for this kind of stuff you know I
don't know of one but I'm sure there is
and and just backing up real quick I
don't want to take the assumption that
the people who manufacture the device
don't care no I do I just I know it's a
hypothetical but I just want to put that
out there that sometimes devices are put
out and and a lot of times with these
Chinese manufactured products it's like
it's a manufactured thing that gets
picked up by a third party in that third
party things hey this is a great idea
let's bring it to market and it all
happens quickly and it all happens
without really the security guy
evaluating it guy gal evaluating the the
security implications and certainly this
is a big one
especially as we look at things like
Coppa and the protection of children and
the monitoring of children and now being
able to be exploit it's so easily I I
don't know what to say I mean it's it's
just it's bad practice all around but
we're feeding into it with the
purchasing decisions that we make and I
think you made a good decision Jeff to
say I'm just not going to buy that but
then what do you do if you want those
kind of functionalities and maybe it's
okay well sticking with brands that you
recognize and sticking with brands that
have child-safe policies perhaps there
must be some I know like ESET has
parental controls that you can install
on their phone if your kids have a
mobile device that's smart compatible
has internet connectivity you can trace
it using geolocation and it's obviously
I mean they're a security company it's
very well encrypted and and you are the
only person who has access to that data
so you know is that what we have to do
it's not a cheap solution no it's not
and quite frankly it comes back to a lot
of times you pay for what yeah there you
go
yeah I mean if you're you know for us we
didn't pull the pin on these smart
watches for the kids
yeah because hey was a great price but I
just I can't trust the name if I'm gonna
get a smart watch for my kids I'm gonna
pay the two $300 for something from you
know Samsung or an Apple because I know
that they're gonna stand behind their
security if something goes awry mmm-hmm
it's it's a tricky time of year too
because everybody really does want to
get the newest and greatest in yeah so
maybe this is a bit of a maybe this is
it maybe this is the PSA to the parents
out there who have purchased these cheap
devices from China that and just using
this as the example it's like be mindful
okay this has happened this is happening
you need to be you need to be protecting
your kids crazy
big thanks to Roy W national community
of viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and
if you appreciate what we do become a
patron at patreon.com slash newsroom
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Eggman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and
I'm Jeff West
[Music]
