we deserve a coffee break after the week
that we've had folks social our whole
world has just been in uproar yeah who
saw this coming I mean our show studio
is moving we announced it at the end of
well I figured it out at the end of
February and so the first week of March
is when we kind of let everybody know
what was going on and and set up our
Kickstarter and and then Friday came and
the whole kovat 19 thing kind of took
off I hope you're all well I hope you're
healthy and and your families are
healthy so far so good
the interesting thing for me is I did a
grocery run or rather a pharmacy run
just to get regular meds that I always
get and they have taped down on the
floor every six feet that you're
supposed to space out you're supposed to
on the floor on the floor they say walk
to this point and then the next person
has to be six feet behind you and
there's the there's the data tape or
whatever on the floor that's the market
and don't come any closer
wow that's in here they're serious about
that I think yeah it makes sense I heard
that the grocery stores are putting up
Plexiglas for their for the people that
work there so that when you're checking
out they're gonna have Plexiglas which
is a really sad state to be in it's such
a crazy thing we'll simply wicked chick
yeah sure gosh it's gonna be like going
to the bank
you know when the old banks in the 80's
90's when they had a Plexiglas yeah it's
just it's like it's out of sci-fi Wow
and here we are it's turn embracing to
watch the news I may not put up with the
news I said I'm not watching this
anymore and you got to be careful too
because a lot of it is so a lot of the
time it's a lot of opinion and a lot of
fear-mongering as well so but positive
things done here is that the
supermarkets are fully stocked again oh
that's fantastic robert coning from
florida
hey Jeff guys nice to see Henry Bailey
Brown joining us uh hi hi everyone
Jeff how you doing man it's been swell
Sonic claim Jeff how's your family doing
oh good the kids are currently playing
Nintendo Wii and chillin yeah that's
good we've uh we beat this nasty cold
that's been runnin around and yeah yeah
that's good good man good bill how are
you doing how's Dara oh there she is
look at that just joining us hi there
bill unfortunately we don't have your
audio bill bill was really excited he
got his webcam working on a no droid but
I don't have any audio cherish we're
just asking about you I don't have audio
from Bill or yourself but it's nice to
see you I hope you're well I don't have
any audio from you two and I see bp9 is
also here bp9 doesn't seem to have a
webcam but we do have audio from vp9
I have a webcam it's just not working
okay Robert it looks like you're sitting
outside you've got another beautiful day
what else would you do in your own
confinement and living in Florida so
yeah here in Ontario my cigar oh this is
the life isn't it it's minus 10 degrees
Celsius here today so I thought I would
stay in the comfort of the indoors can
you hear me now
I can't you now bill yeah II got it
working good good
um I still darah do you have audio
it says mute maybe your mic has simply
muted
if I push if I push on mute does it work
you just meet yourself and I can't help
her because she's in another room in
isolation
[Music]
well Dara we can't hear you but we can
see you and I wish you very well it's
nice to see ya I would wave too if my
camera work yeah vp9 is waving standby
I'm gonna do that real quick hold on so
as far as our show goes it's been a it's
been quite a week I got the insurance I
got that into the to the thank you very
much
I got that into the property management
team and they've confirmed that they're
gonna start painting our unit this
coming week and they they still haven't
given me a key so I have a real feeling
that when we get a key it's gonna be all
set up and ready to like move-in ready
it which is the dream right but so we're
gonna be walking into a unit that's
already painted the colors that gene and
I had sicked and it's gonna be wonderful
Henry are you previous to what's been
going on over the past while I know
you've been kind of m.i.a for a little
bit a little bit it's been kind of
hectic working in the airline industry
right now is probably imagine but oh as
far as I'm aware yeah Congrats again on
the new studio that's really exciting
I'm yeah it's good to be back story
about the hiatus but again it feels good
to be back and saying hi to everyone I
hope everyone's doing well so uh a long
time a long time don't see it's good to
be back guys it's nice to see you Henry
Oh
Henry if people actually still flying or
as ice yes
or are they not really flying very much
people people can fly but their arms get
tired that's an old joke man it still
makes us laugh like there's still people
flying obviously not as much I'd say
like 80% probably down like there's
still maybe 10 people per plane like
it's it's pretty crazy especially with
the boarders that's going on right now
but um there's there so people flying
like especially like inner country so
again not a lot of cross-border traffic
anymore but you still have a lot like
Vancouver to Toronto or enter America
flying but again like I said like just
the borders are being closed so it's a
little bit harder for international
flights for sure
I believe the US has actually stopped
all international traffic am i right
yeah like people still go home like if
you're American and you're like flying
to America from Canada you can still do
that vice versa but I don't think you
can just hop on a plane and just say hey
I want to go on my cruise and the nice
flights they also all empty my sisters
just in this minute flying from Austin
to Miami and she's got the complete
plane for herself Wow
hey first first class there you go yeah
how long can they keep that up though
really whoa
well believe it or not a big thing right
now is cargo because all that toilet
paper has to get back to shelves it's so
we got to move that TP somehow right so
why not a triple 7 yeah it works right
yeah gets gets it from point A to point
B this is true I'm just installing the
app on my microphone I'm gonna see if
that will work
oh that's a polka phone f1 right there
yeah well it's it's not ringing when
people call me and mine's not a polka
phone f1 mine is a slightly other model
but it isn't a phone and it's it I was
expecting a call from support from my
old work cuz I recently changed jobs and
yeah the phone never even rang didn't
even indicate that there was a phone
call incoming yeah so I switch back to
my center hmm but the banker phone ought
to be good for this anyway so yeah yeah
I'm not gonna front which is midstream
I'll wait till but I'll wait till it's
done but sure yeah you know it's been
nice for me is even though like we're in
the middle of this move getting category
five ready to go I have the studio with
home so I actually have my boys my boys
are here with me today I don't know if
you can see them but they're actually
over there they're here with me and
they're there playing Nintendo switch so
I hooked that up to the to the studio TV
so they're keeping me company but even
though we're kind of in self-isolation
we're and none of us are sick we're just
keeping keeping trying to keep
everything at bay but being able to come
from point A to point B
is kind of nice it's kind of a blessing
to have a second place to go get the
kids away from mum for for a day and and
give her a break
so that's been nice and and it's hard to
believe that one week from today if you
can imagine one week from today I'm
gonna be sitting at the new studio I
think or at least I'll be walking
through it and taking you through so
that's pretty cool that's precious if
they're just doing the renovations now
do you think you're gonna be able to get
it all set up
well they're just well they all they've
all they have to do is they they're
removing the chair the chair border so
the mid-height you saw the oak in the
video that went kind of trim around the
wall so they've removed that for me they
are did that last week yeah so they've
removed that last week because I told
them it's gonna look weird on camera if
there's a stripe of hope around the
whole building and then right Monday
Tuesday of this coming week they're
patching and painting so by the time
they're finished doing that then like
Thursday I'll get the key maybe so
Friday yeah I don't see why not
I can't book the install until I have a
key
because I have to be able to let the the
Installer into the building you can just
pick locks a lock like just break in
they kind of frown well yes it's a
studios it's not you're breaking not
breaking into somebody else's place or
just breaking into your anyways right it
doesn't quite work that way the the
building that we're moving into is a
professionally managed building which is
going to be a really nice change for us
you know that we've had trouble with
like sometimes the heat doesn't work in
the winter and the air conditioning
doesn't work in the summer and you know
you contact the landlord and they do
nothing about it and we see a bp9 hey
buddy
we hear you from the from the channel
that has no video but we see you from
the other one
yeah those moving into a place that's
professionally managed is gonna be a big
difference for us yeah no worries bp9 so
I think Jeff it's not gonna be an issue
we're gonna be moving into a place
that's ready for us and I mean we it's
hard to believe next Saturday so one
week from today is our move day what an
internet connectivity this is a really
nice thing Robert here in studio D we
moved in here because it was it came
available and it was a great deal and
you know truth be told the landlord has
treated us really well hey Mike had but
the inn we didn't realize when we when
we renovated that there was no internet
service in the area there's no fibre to
the node there's no there's no fiber to
the building there's no coax to the
building there's only dsl and DSL as you
know is not fast enough for HD video
broadcasts so we used LTE for the
longest time and it cost me about four
or five hundred dollars a month to run
HD video through LTE even though we were
only here four times a month and then we
finally found an isp who had a tower up
the road and we put a thing on the roof
that allowed us to connect to it what
are you thick woody but at the new unit
they have their fully serviced and they
have coax they have fiber but fiber is
about four hundred bucks a month so I'm
not going to go that route
they have coax that's yeah I talked them
into a two-year contract okay two-year
contract from three they required a
three year contract talk them down to
two I'm getting 50 Meg up which is four
times as fast as what we get here with
the Wi-Fi and we're getting one gig down
damn that's awesome we're getting that
on a two-year contract and we're getting
it with LTE back up so it has failover
to LT
II so if our internet goes down we still
have LTE speeds which are 20 Meg's a
second anyways so I I thought redundancy
was really important so I'm getting that
for only 89 once a month wise
business service pay more than that for
my home service
my wife says oh my gosh Robby you're
incredible how do you do that how did
you convince them so it's a new contract
we're switching ISPs because you know
we're not going to be using the same ISP
and they really want us to be on their
contracts so is able to talk them into
it yeah you gonna be like a shopping
mall somewhere or yeah so it's again
let's say it's an office space mall it's
it's really interesting it's strictly
office spaces so they have 280,000
square feet and they have divvied it up
to thousands of offices and a little
startup it's an amazing location what I
love about it is that if we grow we can
move down the hall or we can open a door
between our unit in the next unit and
rent more space we can so cool yeah so
they they rent Oh specifically they rent
out office square footage that's what
they do it's a fully serviced building
it's a flat rate $0.10 per square foot
for our utilities so it's like it's so
easy to to figure out what it's going to
cost us each month and it makes sense
and if if he doesn't work
I mean it's affecting the whole building
and they're gonna take care of it
immediately like there's no screwing
around anymore so it's gonna be really
good for us so it's closer to
civilization
compared to studio D studio D is like a
guy who owns a massive factory and I
mean a massive factory and has was
gracious enough to allow me to rent some
of the space for a very good price so
he's not a commercial landlord he's not
professional landlord he's just he's
done well to let us stay here for as
long as he has six years so it's a
different scenario all together now
we're moving into a space that is meant
for businesses to rent space so it does
I wrote ompletely different I remember
the drive to studio D is literally in
the sticks
yeah and it's a it's a big factory right
and we're like it's like just make sure
you go in through the the door on the
far right and you'll find us exactly
yeah actually yeah yeah you guys want to
see cuz yeah cuz we don't hear any noise
from the factory at all no because they
this is why we are such brilliant
tenants because we are only here at 7
o'clock at night right they close they
close it they close at 4:30 p.m. right
so I'm gonna I'm gonna just step outside
remember it's minus 10 degrees here so
yeah that's our entrance but look at
this place so you see that great big
thing at the end there that's still part
of the same building really connected
[Laughter]
that's your excuse that's your excuse
for forgetting your steps in isn't it
yeah there you go nice Shh I just
remember driving that's where I'm never
driving there from the hotel and I'm
like where am I going the right way
look at the beautiful blue skies today
guys it's so encouraging yeah we've had
such miserable weather and it hasn't
helped spirits around here so this is
our current we've said the foyer right
so this is the entranceway to our studio
which is right there and we've got
locked out these are the audience chairs
which all rid of ok this stair
goes up to their office area that's it
Elwyn jail we you where did you record
when the power went out right here we
were standing yeah yeah so we use the
sunlight coming in because we've got a
lot of sunlight coming in just we've got
those great big lights windows up there
oh so so when Sasha and I were here
talking about potatoes yes we're
standing right here yeah nice I don't
recall that that round oh yes they're
back and look at that episode again sure
does it was but anyway we certainly
tried and then they've got a door right
there see the white door yeah that's
into their office space then to the
right is our bathroom just a little
bathroom then we have this little tiny
storage room which is just under the
stairs that's the TARDIS always bigger
on the inside
yeah even though it's not really all
that big and then you can see I've been
getting lots and lots of packing done so
everything's kind of torn apart right
now as we prepare to move yeah see I
think your overhead you've taken down
the overhead scaffold heavier the camera
mount where's it stolen no it's still
there so I can't see in the camera yeah
it's right there oh yeah so that's the I
actually forgot to bring in a stepladder
today whoopsie I need to I need to bring
in a stepladder and start doing the the
ceiling stuff I got to get up there and
pull all the wires out for the CCTV
who's moving nobody's going to help me
with the social distancing right it's
like Bill's got it right you guys would
help you we would help you Robbie but
you know it's got to be responsible
did I mention that my kids are just over
there playing video games
well none all of us are of very good
health and and I'm gonna stay as close
to them as I can until until anything
forces me to be otherwise - father
notice what's that - father notice
yes exactly yeah so far so good at our
household so nobody's been sick or had
any colds or anything like that so so
we're good so we're still cuddling on
the couch and watching The Voice and
doing all that kind of stuff
we'll do a movie night this weekend so I
think means watching a bunch of DVDs
because what else can we do right yeah
yeah yeah I thought about I thought
about maybe putting the projector at
home and set up like a little mock movie
theater and pop some popcorn or
something like that Pursuit games ha I'm
sorry I couldn't really hear that
Trivial Pursuit did you know oh that's
good idea yeah we've been playing we
just started playing clue for the first
time the kids are old enough to enjoy
that so yeah in Australia it was called
clue dog all right
please uno yes don't ask me why but
that's what it was cool hmm I said
before Robbie that Dara and I watched
the same show TV show on different TVs
now yeah talkies to communicate back and
forth how you're enjoying it yes yeah
they're a thumbs-up if you're feeling
good she's she's gone still her webcam
has gone completely still now oh oh I
can hear there at sure so we just
we've got the mic working but the camera
is now off I mean I feel your pain
issues one of these days we're going to
have this oh good good how you doing
good good I see bills got you all
confined he's finally locked you in a
room somewhere yeah what all the time I
have a little table set up by the door
so I open the door enough to drop her
food on and close the door a key just
like prison isn't it Dara I'm like I got
my desk over here like a word okay and I
and I love we can't really see it
because of the Sun coming in but I've
seen the view out the back and it's just
beautiful too so even with the tree on
the ground ha ha ha ha I love being able
to see out in the forestry and yeah did
you have a tree come down yeah small
tree just toppled right over knock you
off a ladder or anything that ladders
yes yes it goes with the house when I
sell the house it's a feature yeah I get
a spotter yes because that that was
probably one of the worst feelings when
I fell off the ladder I was playing out
there for almost a half an hour where
anybody found me
yeah yeah so I know it's only a couple
of feet but I have somebody there please
oh I know somebody who climbed up a
ladder only like three rungs he fell off
the ladder but got his foot caught in
one of the range yeah okay I get I get I
get the hint guys I get the hint that be
climbing up I guess it's you know maybe
you've saved my life because I was gonna
drop the boys off this afternoon and
come back with a stepladder all by
myself oh yeah you need somebody with
you yeah yeah it's tough with this whole
isolation one one thing that might might
help I mean probably not fast but I know
that with my mother she is now 86
we gave her iPhone
watch you very few don't move anymore it
will dial a number
wow that's cool technology that is much
cheaper is Alexa from Amazon because you
can then yell please dial Robbie and
Robbie's phone number and then you're
connected
yeah that's clever I've seen the the
Apple watch is like have like a fall
sensor and they will notify authorities
or emergency services if there's a fall
I think it's the I think it's the impact
of the fall like like there are it
detects that there's an abnormal oh I've
got a dashcam that does accelerometer in
it as soon as as soon as you have any
kind of a wreck that causes sudden stop
that trigger that tricks the or that
trip CA yeah accelerometer so you're the
one who's publishing always those
YouTube videos
who me no I do YouTube or Twitter or any
of that start at do social media so it's
unusual to actually get me
on well I'm not on screen because my
camera won't work hey Robbie you
watching the clock
yeah watching the clock bill just
reminding us that zoom is nearly out of
time
oh no we do have a limitation on how
long we're able to chat for unzoom but
it's been nice hanging out with you guys
and yeah I think we should do this more
often
especially right now it's like yeah
we're so we're so distanced from
distanced from one another and it's
really hard for me with the show being
off the air right now because usually
I'm here at least once a week chatting
with our chat room and doing a show and
it just feels like we're so distant
right now but we're not we're all in
this together I'll be good for a couple
of weeks New York yeah New York that was
down that's it yeah New York
Italy closed down too and their air
pollution has just gone away as a result
in that while they yes around the globe
yeah I I wonder what the what the
long-term impact of this event is going
to be in that we've never been through
this before as a society we've never had
the technology to to have such a global
event that we're we're able to track and
coordinate in such a way I mean here we
are even just having a hangout with
people from all over the world yeah yeah
so and it's a real lot of world
oppressed there is an old TV series of
British TV series called survivors I
don't know if you throw divers survivors
exactly this describes exactly this we
have in that science fiction you know
fiction yeah no that's the thing doesn't
it seem like we're living inside of a
really bad be science fiction movie it's
it's so true yeah Sal would show up I'm
gonna be freaking out yeah
this is this is closer to the stairs to
the Wang's this the stand Oh such a good
book yeah also fantastic crypto currency
online courses can only recommend there
you go looking at an opportunity to get
my daughter online singing lessons
during this time because it's like hey
what else do you do right so that's
really cool so now she's pulling up
online yeah yeah pretty much yeah she
got hired by a company to work for
Microsoft for the for Minecraft and so
mine tests kind of became like the the
knockoff to her so that's kind of tough
so yeah but she stopped working for them
as of this this year so so I I don't
know there's been a little bit of a
desire to bring that back so we'll see
just passed the seven minute mark
alright thanks Bill
regarding the pixel shadow it's hard for
category 5 because Coppa makes it so we
can't monetize it anymore so that means
any cost that we put into it and having
the servers running was about $150 a
month to run then yeah and then plus the
production costs of the show so so the
chances of bringing it back we'd have to
be doing a lot better as far as like
just knowing that we can offset those
costs that's all well it's been nice
seeing you all and and we will do this
again um for our Kickstarter community
the supporters on Kickstarter we do have
some pre-scheduled zoom meetings set up
but for the for the general community
like this I'll be doing these throughout
the course of the kind of quarantine
that we're all under so just watch for
my notifications and I hope that you can
join us thanks for being here with us
today thanks for um cheers thank you
Karen these guys
stay well everybody I wish you all the
best take care bye-bye
chairs right
