welcome back with criticism mounting
Amazon's of ring revealed a web
dashboard of privacy controls it hopes
will slash the number of horror stories
coming from customers earlier this week
and in time for CES the home
surveillance camera an
internet-connected doorbell specialists
made a point of unveiling an account
control panel it hopes will allow users
to better manage the access settings on
their devices and keep hackers and other
intruders out the new controls will be
available across all products ring set
in the announcement quote the control
center will initially let you see and
manage your connected mobile desktop and
tablet devices as well as third-party
services it will also enable you a to
opt out of receiving video requests in
areas where a local police have joined
the neighbors app end quote
this comes after ring found itself under
fire on a number of fronts for its
privacy policies and security
protections civil rights groups have
raised concerns since the cameras
provide officers excessive levels of
surveillance power in short ring
encourages its customers to share their
web connected camera footage with
neighbors and the police opening up a
whole can of worms regarding privacy and
consent while it's clear there are
privacy concerns over cheap surveillance
devices being installed in people's
homes hopefully the move to a user
control dashboard will help improve
security definitely it's interesting
isn't it how these smart devices
originally when they first started
coming out we're taking away this
security control from the user so we
were all having to make the assumption
that our devices were secure now as
we're learning no it's actually there is
actually problems now they're saying
okay we're gonna create interfaces for
you to be able to control that security
and they're adding features and and you
know they're you can say smart devices
and connected devices are a bad thing
well they're probably not they're just
young and I think we do have to give
some grace to the
companies that are manufacturing them
because they are they're learning from
their mistakes and I think they're
they're proving the two that they're
making changes based on those mistakes I
heard one argument that well it doesn't
enforce two-factor authentication by
default and I thought wow what today it
doesn't force two-factor authentication
and I set up a bank account with my bank
this week and they gave me online
banking and they didn't enforce
two-factor authentication talked into it
right they don't the bank didn't do it
so yeah we're being really hard on a new
platform for the very same thing that
the bank here in Canada like I'm not
talking TD Canada Trust yeah like a big
bank they don't enforce either right so
so we got to put things into context but
yes I think it's a good thing that
companies are starting to respond to
their users and I think it's kind of
neat that they're creating a capability
for law enforcement to utilize
neighborhood cameras I remember there
was a car accident in the summer someone
driving a Tesla at top speed hit a hill
and crashed it remember that yes I do
and the police were able to tap into a
surveillance camera on a house nearby
they saw the entire accident like that's
cool we wouldn't want our privacy
violated that's the thing we have to
find the line and I think having control
and being able to say okay the the one
in my garage is mine yeah the one that's
pointed at the street you can you can
you can have access to that yeah you
know just having a certain level of user
control is a good thing interesting you
know I was gonna go off on a tangent I'm
like no just to stop new year new decade
oh I'm gonna go there because this is
this your resolution I like it
