covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias the United States space force
was only announced two years ago and has
yet to engage in any military operations
but the latest branch of the US Armed
Forces already stands to lose his first
battle to Netflix's space force the
streaming service premiered its new
comedy series space force on May 29th
the show's name has no relation to the
newest organization of the u.s. military
which unveiled its official flag only
two weeks earlier because of the common
moniker though the United States Space
forces first battle might be a trademark
war fought in courts rather than in
space attorneys for the u.s. military
have done little to secure the space
force name as a registered trademark
Netflix however has been far more
aggressive and has already locked down
the rights to the name in several
countries despite sharing a name both
entities have plenty of room to maneuver
without evoking much confusion the
streaming comedy is unlikely to make as
viewers think they're watching a series
about an actual branch of the US
military the u.s. space force meanwhile
has yet to get off the ground
both litoris both literally and
figuratively
while Netflix effort was the first to
come to fruition the u.s. faced force
was first announced by President Donald
Trump in March 2018 the military branch
was officially established as a formal
organization last December Netflix
meanwhile greenlit a ten episode series
in January 2019 created by Greg Daniel
Daniel and Steve Carrell space for stars
Carell John Malkovich Ben Schwartz
Dianna Silver's and tani Newsome season
1 is currently available on Netflix
[Music]
