covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias Microsoft no longer sees
PlayStation Maker Sony and Nintendo as
the biggest competition for its Xbox
platform Phil Spencer Microsoft's head
of gaming said he now considered Amazon
and Google as his top rivals because of
their cloud computing infrastructure
he believes their transitional rivals
Nintendo and traditional rivals Nintendo
and Sony are out of step with the future
of gaming he said quote when you talk
about Nintendo and Sony we have a ton of
respect for them but we see Amazon and
Google as the main competitors going
forward that's not to disrespect
Nintendo and Sony but the traditional
gaming companies are somewhat out of
position end quote
what cloud gaming players don't need to
buy a games console instead the games
are run on servers and huge data centers
with the footage streamed over the
Internet to a TV computer smartphone or
a tablet
it means players don't need to buy discs
or download games and software updates
which can take a long time Google
entered the home gaming market in 2019
with its stadia streaming service the
company's vast cloud computing business
means that it has the necessary
infrastructure in place but critics say
the lineup of games on stadia stadia is
currently sparse while Amazon and Apple
offer games on their app stores and
Apple offers a monthly subscription they
don't currently offer a cloud gaming
service however Amazon also operates an
enormous cloud computing business and is
rumored to be developing a game service
Sony has offered its PlayStation now
cloud gaming service since 2014
letting gamers stream more than 700
titles to a ps4 console or PC however it
currently streams games in 720p
resolution by contrast Google stadia can
stream its games at up to 4k resolution
NVIDIA has officially launched its
GeForce now streaming service
after months of testing and both Sony
and Microsoft have already announced
that they are still working on new games
consoles for home totally demonstrates
the shift
yeah and how things are being how
technology is being provisioned I feel
old
I guess in the fact that my brain
doesn't get it like I don't understa
Lille Achtung - Kong a little
mind-bending yeah well we've been sold
for so many years that the biggest most
powerful console is gonna give you the
best gaming experience now we're being
told oh well you can do it on your phone
you can do it on this little $100 device
you can do it on anything oh and then
you can transition over to your computer
which doesn't even have to be a good
computer it can be a Chromebook yeah
what I think the difference though and I
mean admittedly I have not explored
Google and Amazon gaming services so I
can't speak from first-hand knowledge
but the ability to go offline is what
separates the two oh yeah yeah but but
maybe that's the ideas that were never
offline anymore well and sure we are but
do we really but when we're at that
point aren't it's just we're always
connected Jeff but that always connected
business you're right we are always
connected but dive 860 that's an
assumption of necessary connectivity I
like we see this with our kids all the
time they play games that are not online
it's downloaded and that's it like sure
minecraft is a great one for kids that
are younger where they're playing
minecraft it's not going online I mean
you could go to realms and stuff but the
difference here is yeah if you're gonna
go with the cloud-based computer gaming
services you're stuck to a couple of
things you're stuck to what they offer
from the choices and the graphics and
all that kind of stuff which I think
again I don't know from firsthand would
be subpar compared to what you can pull
out of say you know an Xbox one ass or
you know PlayStation 5 with with their
graphics I mean I can't see playing like
Red Dead Redemption
on my phone you can't you haven't seen
it yet still it's from the technological
perspective everything's going club yes
but the the quality so you're saying
will it look as good so the quality is
not the video the video is your my TV is
1080p so it's 1920 by 1080p regardless
of how powerful my system is or not so
yet for some reason if I use a first gen
we versus a Playstation 4 I'm going to
notice a quality difference in the
pricing and ensure it's a different
system in it so it is apples to oranges
but what I mean is the power of that
more powerful system even though my TV
never changed resolution it's still the
same resolution the video quality is
still the same right ok but it looks so
much better because that one is so much
more powerful so now take that and put
it into a cloud server where this cloud
server is still streaming 1920 by 1080 P
2 to my 1080p TV mm-hmm and yet it has
so much power yes it's a
multibillion-dollar system versus my
little $400 right console right so so
the the the resolution is not the
bottleneck now our our internet is
capable of streaming 4k video in real
time with no latency right that's
incredible mm-hmm so now put it back and
in there that is so powerful that I can
do that on my cheap device yeah and on
any device and I can transition from
device to device I don't have to buy
anything in particular to be able to use
my games and the transition is happening
but the transitions gonna be difficult
for people like me who still like to go
to the store and buy a game and you and
I actually kind of and if they business
you take it with you and put it on I
hesitate even buying digital copies of
games but I like to have the action
game but I understand that the future is
is coming up quick and I'm still gonna
buy a ps5 but I'm gonna also likely play
games on stadia right yeah and that's
that's an interesting point I want to
just reiterate what you just said which
is I'm going to also play video games on
stadia stadia so I don't think that
we're replacing that offline phone
device
I think we're supplementing it and say
it has hey now okay you can you can also
when you're connected to the Internet
play games that you can't play when
you're offline that are like high-end
yeah and that's where okay maybe this is
just another con another platform we all
have multiple plans I wonder if they'll
have a bit like now here's the latency
is too high for VR here cuz should I
have got to be able it's gotta be able
to track you with this right now so I
mean like you've brought up VR which you
know totally make sense our future yes
what about things like framerate
because you said 64k that's pretty good
to me no but no III hear you but you're
talking about the screen resolution I
mean if your internet can't keep up it's
gonna impact your gameplay do you
remember when we used to be like oh I'm
like I'm so bad yeah like oh yeah is
this open or to go back to lagging or my
car my kids gonna go well yes however
consider this as and I know we do need
to move on to the next story but
consider that the very companies that
are pushing the technology shift are the
same companies who are controlling the
introduction of like Google's gigabit
fiber to the home right right so yeah if
that's the case oh you know it's gonna
perform well it's like you you just know
that that's what they're driving toward
and and they're not gonna build a
service that's gonna fail based on that
this latency is a big thing sure sure
and because this is internet-based it's
going to be it's going to resolve the
cross-platform compatibility issues it's
an interesting thing though because you
have to remember that this is not game
streaming this is video streaming we've
already proven through YouTube and
through everything else that video
streaming is great these days yep
there's no latency on videos like like
really in real time if it was real time
so they've created real time video
streaming service that has the
interactivity of controls and control
doesn't take a lot of bandwidth no so
it's like it's instant as long as you
don't have high pings
right as long as you don't have latency
on your internet connection and that's
the key thing and so they'll be driving
ISPs to support their codecs and yeah
we'll see an evolution in that kind of
thing
very cool if you've tried stadia or any
other cloud-based service comment below
let us know if you've been contemplating
it maybe post why you haven't tried it
told me out
