what you're about to see is a fan
production so it is not officially
endorsed by the creators of the Orville
however it is allowed under the fact
that it's a fan creation that's cool
this is just a group of wonderful
talented fans of the Orville who just
love the show and love creating and boy
oh boy are they ever talented ok wait
sit and what we're about to see Jeff is
a very early release so this is now
available for you on Steam I have not
been able to get it to run on Linux yet
I'm not quite sure if it's available for
Linux yet I don't think that it's
available for VR yet
however oh those those things are all in
the plan that's gonna be so cool so keep
in mind this is the initial release and
we're running this on hardware that is
already taxed to the max here tonight so
you're not gonna get the full experience
you're gonna be able to see just kind of
a preliminary this is what is coming out
of messy desk right now and and well
let's take a look you're ready to jump
on board the Orville here we go go to
cat 5 dot TV slash Orville game Oh
multiplayer yes oh so you
oh right because you can customize your
own character I I want to do that first
Jeff let's I want to see this intro and
this is a look at the mazes all fan-made
that's some slick crap well done team I
think we're living living in the future
now yeah yeah
so consider I mean we all love the
orville and this is a creation by its
fans
unreal alright let's let's jump into
edit character mode first I want to see
what kind of functionality is there
keeping in mind that this is like the
earliest release that you that this is
the first release so this is there's
still more to come
it's a work in progress nice I love the
cinematics yeah that's that's awesome so
we've got some looks like character
bases so we can just kind of choose the
base skin hey there you go
Ripper flirt smooth nice sweet oh you
can be a Kalon as well so much
customization very nice
hey considering that this is the first
release I'm actually surprised that they
were able to get this in here so this is
awesome detail like look how many
choices you have well and it's switch is
so quick and smooth hmm sweet well done
on the skins everyone as well Wow yeah
they've got lots of options just started
so these are just bases that you can
start with and then you can yeah I think
so
[Music]
oh yeah cuz each one of these is like
just a like a base skin let's okay so
which one are we gonna settle up I think
let's go with the mock one walk will be
like bought us all right okay we can
choose our division nice although it
basically just changes the the outfit
yep
very good
and listed now did the division and
maybe I'm jumping hat I don't know but
did the divisions we're gonna redshirt
special skills or is it just simply
because I don't know okay all right you
will find I don't know if we will
tonight that oh I can change the eye
color too
oh look at that I can zoom right in well
nice Oh Android Macklin nice what color
air Macklin's eyes naturally or are they
like human so that it varies affect them
I don't know you can actually change
using an RGB color wheel but sweet let's
try to get this as realistic as you
should you know he's shrugging his
shoulders that's fun okay I see we can
change the body as well wow they fit in
a lot of stuff for the like out the gate
release oh look just really characters
yeah
if only nice I'm gonna go with a slender
v mock this guy has been working out in
the in the hollow space let's just say
no comments about what's program right
alright let's do it I'm not gonna do
multiplayer because I have a feeling
we're not gonna be able to support it
during a live show because this can use
networking but let's jump in let's see
which one did you vote
look at the Hat the cinematix folks I
just love those that's nice so I'm like
I have awoken in my quarters
all those are clean graphics wait cool
board is's quarters that's awesome okay
you said you were running this on the
everything sweaters did you just throw
that I bumped it there something also is
a physics-based environment as well
trying to turn on the water I can't so
let's see if I can
it could yeah you can see reflections
and everything Oh imagine it doesn't
seem like this is responding like I
can't like it's not an active terminal
yet okay placeholder I'd love to can we
synthesize some cigarettes it's not it
doesn't seem to do anything that's fine
okay so a lot of it I mean this is like
the the initial tour like let's say glow
mouse is a little bit janky I'll be
honest I wonder if there's a way I can
tell the settings at the beginning
you're probably adjust our activity
alright we can check that out
Oh different views sweet I pushed see
and then control button okay oh look at
the mess hall this just looks so
authentic I know and it gives a look of
like I feel like I'm actually on board
like I feel like I'm putting some
dimension Suzumiya my goodness scrag nug
nice a nod to one of the game creators
scrag nog huts can you guys read that I
cannot no okay so I feel like as when
the Orville when I watch the overall I
need to go view this yeah you see if it
matches up yeah like it does like really
Oh like this is this is the layout that
I envisioned
that is so cool we got like a science
lab or something like that okay cool Oh
even on the outside you can see the
different portions of the ship that's
that's nice nice
oh that's the stairwell that was in the
like the staff photo no it's locked
locked you thought they'd say you know I
need a key where does this actually go
I've only ever seen the picture from the
bottom what'd you find out you choose
medical officer as your I chose security
just because I wanted to be a redshirt
all right I can't go through there but
it's not red oh there's an open oh nice
yeah this is the captain's office look
at this oh yeah can you pick up no I
can't I'm clicking and no right back up
I don't know how it looks like it wants
to be picked up one day okay and maybe
that's it maybe it's just it's not been
implemented yes they're not allowed to
shoot Kermit yet today not yet look at
that guy's Wow show her the office it
does I was trying to articulate look at
the detail books where's the Apple
they're missing
so I love the model too and even the
like the detail with the the ivory
sculptures they yeah that's phenomenal
why you look kind of like local that
shares in my way I can't seem to remove
things but maybe there's like a control
what's that some kind of button or
something so they charge their iPhones
what it's a Qi charging station oh I'm
on the chair okay
oh nice parkour whoa wait okay look at
the camera come on look at the camera
dude this is impressive for a fan
creation I mean in its first iteration
yeah oh I just feel like this is just
giving me a sense of the layout of the
ship we've never really had this like
the ability to actually tour it and
figure out how things are connected
yeah like how did they do this okay now
wow this even seems to be like depth
wise the same as I think it's to ship
like it's like just kink it does seem to
scale yeah yeah 100% can really we know
that they're actually full of really
fine
malt whiskey
I would like to try oh this is his
quarters okay
oh nice Wow beautiful detail everybody
had a fall in my room with stairs this
is like a multi-level Captain's Quarters
night oh it makes sense because it's
gonna have a spot to sit and do his work
right right so this must lead up to
another corridor oh it makes sense the
the captain can just run across the hall
and get his shots that's right yeah
sweet this is phenomenal every little
detail folks you gotta watch the show
back and just see how much detail what
Yenisei desk has put into like placement
of objects and all of the little minor
details that we may not even catch on
the show or you can recreate the show we
don't here okay so obviously this is
obviously the first version but is
eventually you can have characters like
computer-generated characters Oh
yeah I would imagine so it's the
multi-user environment
I just want to her you said this is
single if I just wanted to hurt you
notice all these doors that are locked
yes these are gonna lead somewhere Jeff
right yeah right now it's just I think
I'm back where I was I'm gonna get
turned around the top and then walk in
at the same time yeah corridor is all
look the same right I guess once you get
used to it though you're gonna know your
way around I really want to find like
engineering or something like that
though hmm
I'm not seeing it it's got to be here
well yeah oh nice
what can you pick it up I'm trying so
just let me pick you up yeah it's not
let me click her anything okay looks
cool though yeah it looks very good yeah
I imagine that old meeting room briefing
Wow
where we going yeah I just want to show
you the wide shot there look at that
that's phenomenal
just beautiful can I interact with
objects no it doesn't look like yeah
physics yeah the physics are common not
there necessarily yet so so another
surprise yes left coffee everywhere
you're messy yeah oh there's we'll say
Deanna's classroom yes
maybe a closet or something that's not
opening
what's down here this is well that's
that's where I came from
okay another locked door yeah
space whoa it's so pretty
Wow okay now that's interesting I there
was no stars because I'm in the void
Jeff don't remember I chose the boy so
why was there Sun flare it was there
solar flare there oh yeah on the on the
hollow yeah see I'm gonna turn around
here and I'm not finding engineering I
feel like we need to drop map maybe they
have it out of it yeah yeah we
definitely could use a map that's locked
as well and this is slick what do you
folks think so far I mean you could see
the comet like a marriage oh it likes it
wants to play it in VR oh yeah and that
is coming alright so keep in mind this
is an early release some of the jank
eNOS that you're seeing is me some of it
is just that it is an early release
internet and they're they're still like
working like crazy and as a fan creation
and for a fan creation this is just
super came out of love put into this
excellent job what an opportunity for us
fans to be able to tour the ship that
we're growing to love here after season
two of the Orville has has wrapped up
and we're all preparing for season 3
this is gonna take me back to my
quarters okay yeah I noticed in the chat
room me geek 75 said that already
downloaded it but didn't want to play it
because we wanted to see it first by
sweet that's awesome thanks for the love
yeah that's accept okay I don't think
we've saw any here yet this is the other
side of the mess hall yeah
well and I I feel like I've been
everywhere so far so keep in mind that
as a work-in-progress
where we're gonna see more rooms open up
we're gonna see more more features like
the like these replicators maybe we're
gonna see those start to function as
well I know that's in the plans just
awesome though that's fair should we
yeah not I'm not finding any other rooms
I think we've pretty much seen
everything there is to see I feel like
there's been so many doors though so
many doors maybe they all kind of lead
to the same area yeah locked let me in I
want to see where you lead
maybe that's engineering you think so or
no it's a sick day oh right the other
end of sick bay let's try starting a new
game okay in a different mode I wonder
if there's like different so what do we
got you need Dockyard the void Saul and
asteroid field Oh
asteroid field says you're gonna be on
the Orval with lieutenant damn that's
exciting it's do that
is he actually there once again it gets
me every time yeah transition all right
this is now we learn oh look outside or
he's got ya go chair in my way base are
we back in bored asses quarters yes we
are okay okay
so I guess that's our wakeup point but
we do have more visuals outside okay so
we're learning the layout it's gonna
take some time I think it's like
anything right you gotta learn where
things are no you said Dan isn't this
one well that's what the description
said walk fine in a lot of locked doors
so I feel like there's still a lot to
come like stuff that they're still
working on maybe there's stuff back
there but an elevator music oh my gosh
engineering engineering nice I swear
that wasn't there before
cuz music is making me giggle
there we go open open please let me in
Oh it's all holosuite I don't know what
do they call it on the Orville I'm
getting in trouble for using Star Trek
terms yeah look at the holodeck everyone
Wow I wonder if this is ever gonna be
functional incredible could you play
this game in the game
whoa that's mind bent sweet we're there
okay I just got you all man that's so
exciting
mmm look at this
Wow I feel like they got every element
did they have Tom like go through here
with a video camera on the real set just
like hey here's what it's supposed to
look like
this is way too authentic this is how I
see like movement in the in the warp
engine there I'm not sure what powers
Union Starship
it can't be dilithium because that would
be a Star Trek thing right that would be
copyright no it wouldn't
I don't know they probably would knowing
CBS dilithium is a Star Trek trademark
no it's a real element tricked or a
theoretical element I'm not sure Marsh
man says like hits in a candy shop I was
about to say like he nailed this one
again totally kids a takeda shoppers
don't dystocia no this is phenomenal
like you're right in VR I think it was a
marriage I said earlier like you could
do a vacation on this and for someone
who wants to go into space this could
totally be something that they could
spend time in mm-hmm
well especially if you're a big fan of
the Oroville because I feel like
look like this has just taken me there
and now this project you probably
recognize the kind of the look of it
let's let's jump up to to the shuttle
bay I think I clicked on the wrong one
see if I can do it again
this is from the same creators as the
original stage 9 which was the NCC 1701
D Starship Enterprise
but of course that got the cease and
desist from CBS so that's you know
that's where my tongue-in-cheek joke
comes from but but so there's a lot of
shopping you can you can see that that
talent just shining through and and this
is just but its performing very very
well I've got everything set to max Wow
it's very slick very clean just like the
Orville okay lots of corridors yeah I
think you're right I don't think this
was in the void going suck it think
there's old yeah there's a whole other
section that's strange
you know no I am where is Dan yeah I
haven't seen him did is that the find
him yeah I didn't go see I'm sure I
can't get past these chairs and I can't
seem to sit on them or anything like
that so so lots of features that are
still to come
right I can't what is that you guys see
that no I missed it
ooh Oh Oh the pre corner I got something
my mouth oh my gosh I just wanted to
know if it was sloshed the Orval yeah
you guys are awesome and disgusting
thanks for the laughs I think we've seen
kind of all that I can show you on our
live broadcast here this week but there
you go
Wow like look at even the the shuttle
model yeah I can't wait to be able to
fly that oh that's interesting in the
bottom corner says health 100 yeah I
noticed that yeah obviously there's some
component of damage built in eventually
I think so maybe some PvP you think we
could like go head-to-head just awesome
that is a fan creation walkthrough of
the Orville it's called the Orville
interactive fan experience you can pick
it up absolutely free on steam at cat5
dot TV slash Orville game I'm
downloading tonight go check it out
again I haven't got it working on Linux
yet I think it's coming for Linux
I see the icon on Steam shows Windows
and Mac look I was able to install it on
my Windows 10 machine and then play it
on Steam from my Linux machine but it
was through the like the streaming
version of steam but it wasn't actually
running natively on my computer okay so
definitely it works great it seems to
work right on Windows 10 and my specs
aren't super super awesome so check it
out cat 5 TV slash Orval game please
comment below let us know what you think
and we'll pass that along your kudos to
the team who has created that do check
them out that link cat 5 TV slash Orval
game will actually
due to their official website so you can
learn more about the project learn more
about the team and in fact download the
game absolutely free because it's a fan
project from Steam
[Applause]
