let's jump over to comments questions
concerns regarding our mikrotik series
you can find out more about this micro
tech series at cat5 dot TV slash
mikrotik a real quick rundown for you
this series is designed to help you get
from never using a micro tech device to
being able to do some really cool
advanced stuff with your mikrotik router
micro tech routers the reason that we
are featuring them is because they are
affordable Zoomer priced routers but the
feature set that they include is more
like that of an enterprise router so
you're getting way more than you pay for
and we're able to do basically anything
with a mikrotik router that you can with
those enterprise you know devices that
are ten times the price and you can have
one at home they are perfect for small
medium-sized businesses because they are
so affordable and yet so secure and so
capable so looking at the micro tech
devices through the course of the series
a cat5 dot TV slash mikrotik you're
gonna be able to learn from the get-go
how to use them how to program them how
to set up your networking and that
series is available for you how much
money Robby absolutely free zero dollars
so cat5 TV slash mikrotik is where you
can enjoy that series which is ongoing
and so it's a great opportunity for you
to be able to learn more about these
devices so jumping over to our youtube
channel at linux tech show com first of
all dr. reality one wants to say this is
a great tutorial many thanks and dr.
reality one in reference to one of those
micro tech tutorials I appreciate that
very very much as you can imagine a lot
of work goes into the show a lot of work
goes into the series and I am passionate
about these devices and the technology
that we demonstrate here and I'm so glad
that you're that you're enjoying that
TCC says I'm glad to see someone giving
mikrotik some love yes
how can you not I think the only people
TCC who would not give love to mikrotik
as you say are those who have never used
mikrotik or maybe never even heard of
Microtech I mean you you go to a super
Center back in the days when we had
those and could walk into a retail store
and just buy things off the shelf those
were interesting times but back then I
mean what did what did you see next year
Linksys right mikrotik know I don't know
that I've ever seen it in a super Center
so I think that maybe it maybe it's that
it's not that people wouldn't love it if
they knew about it so maybe that's why
I'm showing some love to mikrotik
because I want our viewers to know that
hey there's something that's better
there's something that is affordable and
something that is fantastic and secure
Rockaway CCW says my mikrotik came in
the mail yesterday yes I tried to name
my Wi-Fi this is not the Wi-Fi you're
looking for but it wouldn't let me Oh
see I said mikrotik can do anything but
you have to have a valid SSID that I
guess is I just assumed that you knew
that maybe there's a character limit or
maybe it I'm reading a game or maybe it
doesn't like spaces or punctuation not
sure so instead I named the five
gigahertz not yours and the two
gigahertz DEA surveillance van all right
so you got two networks the five
gigahertz for your own usage and this
DEA surveillance ban can I suggest if
you want to play this fun game that you
look at on a cat5 TV slash micro
Rockaway CCW I did a tutorial on how to
set up a true guest Wi-Fi and you could
use that virtual WLAN and then that way
you're not using your you know your two
gigahertz because you might want to use
that for something for real right but
you could set up a virtual wireless LAN
and it could be named it with a silly
SSID like that if you like
so Rockaway CCW goes on this is a long
comment folks in fact it was sent in two
parts says I'd like to have the two
gigahertz Wi-Fi de a surveillance van
activate and deactivate at random times
to mimic a van cruising around the area
to freak out my crackhead neighbors oh
boy
is there a way to do that Rockaway CCW
asks you never know the motivation of
these questions but hey okay so I said
you can do anything with mikrotik and
truly truly you can so I'll just jump
over to my pine Book Pro here which has
web fig up and running and Rockaway CCW
yes there it would be possible to do
that okay so first of all I want to
remind you that DEA underscore
surveillance van that is your SSID
that's not your your interface name so
what we want to obtain is your interface
name so over here you may remember if
you've been following the series go up
to wireless and click wireless and you
see okay so find your 2.4 gigahertz - so
there it is 2 gigahertz it's the one in
the middle it is w LAN one on my
mikrotik it may be different on yours
but find out which one it is you need to
know the name of that so in my case it's
all lowercase W LAN 1 now what I want to
do is go into system and scheduler and
in the course of this series I have
mentioned that the mikrotik is
programmable so that's essentially what
we're gonna do we're gonna program it
using the scheduler because you
mentioned that you want this to happen
you said at random times it's not
actually going to be random in our case
we'll do it on a schedule and it will
recur so it will turn on and then off
and on and off so add new and we're
gonna call this one name it
turn off 2.4 gigahertz and my start date
it's setting it automatically to
tomorrow's date I want to set it to
today just so that you see it happening
right away and I'm gonna set it to 12
o'clock on the button with an interval
now you would probably if you want it to
be every minute right you could do
something like that if you want it to be
every 10 minutes something like that for
the case of the for the sake of the
demonstration I'm gonna do every 10
seconds keeping in mind we're going to
be turning it on and off on and off so
it's actually gonna be every 5 seconds
I'm going to set the intervals as such
so but that will just make it so that we
can see it right away so the on event is
where we're actually going to program it
so we're gonna say interphase wireless
disabled what was the name of it W LAN 1
ok as soon as I hit OK I'm gonna lose my
W LAN 1 so if I head over to cos C it's
it's already scheduled it and it's gonna
say run count and that's going to start
increasing see that one so now my
Wireless is off so if I go to wireless
now you can see W LAN 1 has been
disabled so go back to your scheduler
because we need to now the van is driven
away presumably right so we want to make
it so the van has returned let's put
this into a scenario that maybe makes a
little more sense because I understand
rockaway CCW is being a little bit silly
here but I'm still happy to oblige let's
think about a parent who wants to be
able to turn so set your guest Wi-Fi use
that tutorial to create a Wi-Fi for your
kids to use then have it turn it off
automatically at curfew
okay so let's use that as the there's a
really good scenario I like that so
there you go okay so here we are now
creating remember where I am here I'm
under system scheduler and I'm creating
a new one so add new I don't have
anything to turn it back on so re-enable
2.4 gigahertz Wi-Fi and this could be
any interface right it doesn't have to
be Wi-Fi in our case where that's the
demonstration but so interface Wireless
enable w lan 1 is what that one is
called so now it's to look at the
schedule so remember i set the other one
to 12 o clock right on the button so I'm
setting this the same just to make it
easy for you to see on the third which
is when I'm filming this live and we're
setting this to 10 seconds so right now
it's it's set to happen at exactly the
same time as our other schedule which
turns it off so basically these are
going to cancel each other out so what
I'm going to do is I'm going to offset
this 1 by 5 seconds so every 5 seconds
we're gonna have the Wi-Fi turn off and
then five seconds later it's going to
turn back on even though each task is
happening every 10 seconds so if all
goes well I'm gonna hit ok and we should
see that that one is going to run and
see the schedule there they're off by 5
seconds re-enable has run ok let's jump
back over to wireless and watch my W
land just watch it I'm not gonna touch a
thing here my hands are off it's on
watch WN 1 and it's off that is going to
continue happening indefinitely it's
going to keep going on and off and on
and off now use the scenario that I gave
you for those of you who are not trying
to simulate a van and maybe use this to
schedule that the internet turns off for
the particular Wi-Fi that your kids are
using at 9 o'clock p.m. and it turns
back on at 7 o'clock in the morning or
maybe you even though that you're having
a home school right now right the
scheduler can be
to only saturdays and it can turn on at
7:00 but maybe because you're
homeschooling now you want it to start
at 10 a.m. because you want the kids to
get their schoolwork done first or
something like that that is a cool idea
one final note for you Rockaway CCW you
could actually use TX - power as part of
your command so just to put this out
there I'm not going to show you how to
do this because this is getting into a
little bit more sophistication you'll
probably need to create a script and
then initiate that script with your
scheduler but you could have it start at
like full power and turn down the power
every second so that it seems as though
the van is actually getting closer and
then getting further away because the
signal strength keeps going up gets
really strong sits there at full
strength for about 10 minutes and then
tapers off and comes down you could
actually do that using TX - power when
you're programming that man putting
ideas in your head all right so the
question that I want to pose this week
is through the course of this mikrotik
series a cat5 dot TV slash mikrotik
would you like me to be continuing to
use my web browser web fig or would you
prefer that I use wind box which is the
installable client from mikrotik the
advantage to like just a really really
quick advantage to wind box is that it
has multitasking built in and it is a
tabbed layout instead of scrolling down
the advantage to using the web browser
is of course it's not at all reliant on
what program I'm using I can just be
using Firefox Chrome I'm using brave
some folks argue that perhaps the client
is more secure others argue that the
browser is more secure and sometimes
it's a moot point because the browser
access I have not opened up to the world
it is only accessible within my land so
it's not a security risk whatsoever as
far as that goes
so needless to say tell me which one do
you want web Fig
the browser interface or wind box the
application that allows you to connect
your mikrotik and manage it that way and
you have to tell me in your comment
below why don't just say wind box I want
to know why why are you suggesting I use
wind box what makes you prefer it why
are you suggesting I use web fig and why
do you prefer it that's my question that
I'm posing to you this week and I'll be
back again with more at cat5 dot TV
slash micro tech
