[Music]
our live recording is a trusted ally to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 TV welcome
to the show everybody this is episode
number 634 and category 5 is on the air
this week we've got a great show planned
for you I say that every time but it's
true we are going to be looking at the
brand new echo device from Amazon so you
want to stick around for that and in the
meantime you - nice to see you it's
great to have you here Jeff and Sasha
are over there I'm Robby Ferguson and
nice to have you joining us this week
before we get into the show I want to
remind you make sure you subscribe to us
on YouTube and make sure you click that
bell that's going to ensure that you get
our notifications every time that we are
live or when we post brand new videos as
well Jeff you remember back in the day
when we were just we lads I do and there
was a particular game I'm just gonna
reach over here because I actually have
it Jeff does this bring back any
memories for you oh my gosh yes can you
believe it has been 20 years 20 years
that's about right since Unreal
Tournament which we now call goty or
game of the year edition was released
and this is the the actual disc so you
can still get these on Amazon you'll get
them used
it's only a couple bucks you can also
get the game on Steam for 11 bucks and
you can play Unreal Tournament now this
game I mean for a lot of us holds a lot
of nostalgia oh yeah but 20 years and
it's still absolutely playable it's
still a lot of fun this was the original
I would say Jeff this was the original
deathmatch yeah absolutely I mean it was
out around the same time as like I'm
like Commander Keen yeah but I mean as
far as a first-person shooter it was
that you had Team Fortress
counter-strike they were all kind of
within the same timeframe of years but
UT was kind of like that benchmark that
everybody used and I mean even even now
like when I look back on it like I think
I had the most fun with UT compared to
counter-strike or Team Fortress oh yeah
and that was about the time that Jeff
and I got to know one another
yes so and this is part of how we got to
know one another so this is actually
kind of special to category-five I think
Jeff yeah because this game this game
brought us closer together
what was the other one where we heard
was we played tremulous tremulous
thought formulas is a Linux game where
we were like spiders yes aliens and
running around and everything that was
an open source but but tremulous as well
as Unreal Tournament what was neat about
this is it was one of the first real
games that was available on Linux yeah
so you can install this directly on
Linux now it's a it's called a PC cd-rom
but right on the back you can see tucks
see that so yes the Installer is for
Windows but it also has an installer for
Linux so this was I think one of the
first games so so it made us able to
play deathmatch multiplayer across we
did land parties yep what was our
biggest LAN party would you say oh gosh
I want to say we had four or five
computers at one point eza yeah do you
remember the time when we had a LAN
party and we had like people sitting I
had like the big 40 inch CRT TV and it
was connected to a computer
this was like a big land party where we
had I don't know maybe 10 or 15 people
over and and we just had an Unreal
Tournament land party yes oh that was so
much fun those were the days love that
yeah I think we need to like have
another UT land party I think so
20 years in do you think it's still
worth playing absolutely
what do you think folks I the Redeemer
was my weapon of choice
well of choice do you remember I I you
know what I think the Redeemer was my
go-to as well yeah mainly because I just
couldn't catch up with you like for
whatever reason you were really good at
fragging me yeah and with the Redeemer
and I needed to use a Redeemer to at
least kind of have some sort of a
semblance of fighting back we're so good
so great miss that game Unreal
Tournament you can find it on Amazon
still again it's on Steam it is not for
kids I mean we say that it's it's got a
lot of violence but but it's kind of
comic mischievous violence and a lot of
fun and in fact my kids are old enough
that we're starting to play this
together now yeah which is really really
cool
20 years in folks Unreal Tournament so
you know big kudos to the developers of
that game are you ready for this Jeff I
want to go through the system
requirements folks at home are you ready
for this
seriously acquirements yeah okay so I
want to install this on my I $9.99
hundred K at five gigahertz with 64 gigs
of RAM but let's make sure we meet the
minimum system requirements according to
the jewel-case here we go system
requirements CPU pentium 200 megahertz
or better recommended Pentium to 233 Wow
memory 32 megabytes of ram recommended
64 megabytes we're not talking gigabytes
here okay we're talking megabytes 64
oh my goodness remember when we thought
that was big yes okay available
harddrive space required to install
Unreal Tournament back in today yes yeah
take a guess for me
I'm gonna guess 62
megabytes you're you're about half
halfway there
see I was gonna say 120 yeah that's the
minimum the minimum requirement is a
hundred and twenty megabytes Wow
megabytes recommended because it's got
remember there are two disks here one of
them is the game disk one of them is the
extras if you want the extras you're
gonna need about six hundred and five
megabytes they're that specific it
actually says 605 megabytes is
recommended okay it's cd-rom Windows 9x
compatible I want to read this verbatim
it says Windows 9x compatible so that
means this was compatible with windows
95 and windows 98 yet you can still run
it on Windows 10 and Linux now here in
2019 and this of course came out in you
guessed at 1999 the video PCI local bus
video card 3d accelerator recommended do
you think that my Nvidia r-tx 6000 is
going to be sufficient to play Unreal
Tournament
it only has lag just a little bit I
don't know Jeff it has maybe a little
bit it only has 24 gigs of DDR 6 ram
onboard operating system windows 95
windows 98 windows 2000 because we all
played Unreal Tournament on our Windows
servers didn't we
Windows NT boy a downloadable Linux
version is available at Unreal
Tournament com it actually says that
right on the jewel-case here network and
internet play via tcp/ip like there
because there odin you can't do this
with fidonet folks
no you need a tcp/ip network that is
just what can I say
unreal that's that's your Unreal
Tournament folks happy 20th birthday to
the greatest game probably I'd say of
all time that's the ultimate match game
I should try playing it just once Oh
Sasha I think you should join us for a
LAN party because that was before before
we got to know one another
wouldn't it be just a joy folks to have
Sasha and Jef together and maybe get the
community together to do an unreal
tournament absolutely annihilated right
off the hog I think so now because it
was so long ago yeah would there be
capabilities today of online like server
play yes sir it's so it's not direct to
connect to a specific server it's just
open you could join you you create a
server in your game yep and it gives
everyone else access to that server if
it's a public server if it's a private
server its land only or if somebody has
your IP and you've got the ports open on
your network then they'll be able to
play as well who wants to turn it into a
VR game well I do have modern version
Sascha
I mean Unreal Tournament is certainly
not dead right but this is the original
the the real deal right here it's too
bad that we couldn't have a bunch of
copies available for our patrons that
way we can that would be great well I
will say if we had let's just say
community if you were fans of Unreal
Tournament if you don't already have it
grab a copy and steam again it's only 11
bucks I got this for 6 bucks on Amazon
used so you can still get it get it and
get it installed and up and working and
then communicate back to us here
category 5 TV and let's do it let's
let's do a LAN party guys ok totally be
up for that yeah all right I'm in there
let's do it we played the first like MMO
Entropia universe Wow well that was a
that was quite a bit later Jeff it was
yeah but I mean I do remember playing
that one that was like right at the
beginning of mmo's yeah oh yeah it's
still exists as well it's still it's
still out there I still have my ped so
do i yeah
don't know if it really helps me out
these days I've never cashed out but hey
I've got some good ingame that's around
stuff but hey that's so cool 20 years I
can't believe it makes me feel a little
bit old but at the same time wow that's
a nostalgia right there well we've got
to take a really quick break when we
come back we're gonna be looking at a
new product from Amazon it's called the
Amazon echo flex you can want to see
this stick around
welcome back this is category five
technology TV now have you got one of
these guys yet I have one yeah yeah I'm
gonna tell you as we start off this
demonstration if your keywords are
anything other than Alexa make sure you
turn off your device or mute the
microphone for the moment because we're
gonna be talking about this and
demonstrating one of their new devices
so this is the Amazon echo dot the the
the one that doesn't have the built-in
clock is the one that I have and this
thing sounds great it works great and
it's fantastic but you've got a wire
that comes out of the back for power and
it's gonna take up like death space or a
counter space or something like that
Jeff where is yours residing right now
ours is in the kitchen sitting on the
windowsill actually okay to plug right
beside the windowsills so that's ideal
we have maybe you know half a foot of
cord yep and so it runs behind the
silverware and then it sits right on the
windowsill and it's perfect it's on
anyway and it's it's got nice acoustics
bouncing off the window we use it for
music in the kitchen all nice that does
sound really really good but what if
your plug isn't right next to where the
echo is going to be sitting or what if
you just want to be able to plug it
directly into the plug wouldn't that be
nice wouldn't that be nice so enter the
Amazon echo flex no this is the
brand-new one from Amazon and it is
literally a socket adapter thingy it's a
it's an Amazon echo that you plug in
it's got the buttons on the face just
like you just like you expect to be able
to mute the microphone or activate
without using the voice command in order
to command it and what if they did
something a little bit more I mean the
connectivity on this the physical
connectivity I should say I mean the
wireless and the smart home connectivity
is excellent but the physical
connectivity is a little bit
lacking well this one the Amazon echo
flex oh it's got a USB port it has a USB
port and then what if all hypothetical
right now it's not hypothetical at all
what if they brought out accessories
such as a motion sensor that could just
plug in like that or say a LED
nightlight oh nice plug-in like that and
these are smart home connected so you're
able to control them let's actually I
want to plug this in and see what
happens so I've just got this now
obviously this is just like you see it
here on your screen you're gonna plug
this directly into the wall presumably
I'll just say the nice thing about this
is the the convenience the portability
and the ability to plug it in anywhere
you're not gonna get the same sound
quality I mean we come to expect really
good sound quality out of these guys
this one is really about the convenience
and extending the smart home so we've
already got our smart home kind of built
up we've got some smart devices we're
able to control some lamps and things
like that so this now puts more
microphones some motion sensors and
things like that around the house on the
cheap so I'm gonna plug this in just
like I would into the wall and let's see
how difficult this is to to actually
activate so on my smart phone here I'm
gonna add a device and I'm gonna go
Amazon echo and let's scroll the list
look at all the devices that they've got
already it's a growing line and there's
the echo flex is it plugged in and
orange yup select your Amazon echo
there's only one it's already picked it
up select your Wi-Fi network
all right it's the first one perfect
could it be that easy I haven't even had
to configure anything so but this will
be connected to your specific device oh
yeah just showed right up in my app okay
sweet so now okay scroll through it's
connected to my Wi-Fi I didn't have to
configure that well I've got all these
all the options that you would expect
from any Amazon echo device now I just
saw it setup pair gadget sure is that
the devices that go at the bottom well
let's let's try Jeff I'm gonna plug this
guy in Oh first of all here changing the
wake word to cancel and then I want to
plug this in no those are those are
devices like if you have subwoofers or
other peripherals this guy as soon as I
plug it in it's gonna flash oh there we
go
it looks like it's connecting nice okay
so now Jeff I'm gonna add a routine okay
and I'm gonna create new and I'm gonna
add an action and this really reminds me
of like if this then that right so I'm
gonna jump into my smart home because
that's where this device is going to
show up and you see there's my motion
sensor and if we detect motion I want to
do what let's add an action so when the
sensor detects motion I guess it says
and I cancel
I can select something okay cancel let's
go into my smart home and and look at my
devices there's my Christmas tree at the
top for example okay so let's just say
turn it on so as soon as it
Tech's motion it's going to turn on my
Christmas tree is this the Christmas
tree you have at home yeah yes exactly
so as you're moving that around your
Christmas tree is going nuts right now
yeah I guess so
no if it's already on its a it's it's
gonna be on but now I can put this in
the hallway leading up to the room where
the Christmas tree is and as soon as
somebody walks by if the Christmas tree
is off it will now turn on because it's
plugged into my smart power bar so now
okay so I'm gonna I'm gonna disconnect
this guy and plug in this and let's just
see what happens the first time that we
plug this in that's the nightlight yeah
I found first light and you can control
it by saying turn off first light I love
what I love about this is how intuitive
it is right anyone can figure this out
there's no instruction manual that I
have to read I'm just so it just told me
so I'm gonna try this turn on first
light okay
set first light to purple okay a set
first light to red now on camera you're
not really seeing how red that really is
no but we're in the studio
are you yeah yeah okay in the it's it's
interesting how LED reacts to our 60
Hertz cameras right change first light
to orange yep and there is a shift in
the color yeah okay change first light
to purple okay there you go okay you can
see it on my hand nice and clear no
apparently that's the secret
now Marshman is saying in the chat room
yeah
give her a instruction to change the
color to whatever but don't say okay is
that an instruction you can give with
this device because every time it's like
okay okay okay is there a problem with
that no but like I'm thinking for
instance you know if you've got a kid
who say has a nightlight in their room
yeah they might just say turn the light
on
yeah and you don't want to have this
voice coming back to you in the middle
and I go on okay sure I'll make that
happen is this bright enough for you
like a whisper or something you probably
can just because Jeff wants to know
volume zero
turn off the first light volume eight
turn on first light
okay all right volume zero
turn off first light
okay oh she said it all right
does it matter no no but I just it was
an interesting comment in the in the
chatroom and I was like you know what
okay that's a good question especially
if you've got say kids sleeping at night
because it is a nightlight you could set
it to be almost like a little bit of a
gentle wake up to trip they set it to
automatically come on at certain times
that it turn off my first light
can you set first light to come on at
7:00 a.m. oh she thinks is the first
motion Center says so there are you know
there's probably gonna be help for that
kind of stuff right yeah whether like
you can set up routines though so in my
app I can set up the routine to do
certain things as I mentioned it it
really has a reminiscent look to if this
then that so if a certain time is
approached automatically do whatever
right I would within the next bike I
have to wake up in the next hour yeah
change color to a different color so
that when I kind of opened my eyes it's
not it's a nightlight if this this one
is a nightlight
right so this is the one that's gonna go
in the hall for what you want to do I
would get a smart power bar for example
and have it plugged into a lamp and have
it I have it turn on or get one that can
fade up for example or you can actually
get smart lamps that will bring the the
light up like sunlight like a like a so
you get these various devices so this
particular one again it's it's really
really cheap and it's something that you
can just plug in anywhere in the house
and it extends that that smart home so
that no matter where you are it will
play music it it can be a controller for
your voice-activated things throughout
the house and and it's all done it's the
exact same so the questions are like you
can it do this kind of do that it's
exactly the same as this guy as far as
the commands go right so it could
broadcasts to the whole family to all
devices like if dinner right like you
could just talk to it it can and I don't
want to demonstrate that I do
have some echo devices at home but you
can well how could I do that drop in
right no so I haven't Alexa device in my
kitchen that's why it asked and I'm
holding it like a walkie-talkie you
don't have to hold it like that you're
gonna have it plugged in somewhere else
in the house and is a sensitive enough I
mean drop in
right now because you're already in a
conversation Oh cancel hang up I didn't
realize I was in a conversation Oh so
home is listening so that is the new
echo flex I mean this is a really really
I mean I hate to use the term but it's a
smart device if it wasn't for such a
dumb user but you just literally just
plug that in anywhere in your house or
your office and we can have these
anywhere so as long as they have Wi-Fi
connectivity you can have devices at
home you can have devices at work if you
like presumably like in my situation I'm
in a small office so I could have that
at work I could have one here at the
studio and I can use it to communicate
with home I can use it to listen to
music in various places I can use the
one at the studio to set up alerts that
will notify me at home for example so
it's just an extension of your smart
home and that's the echo flex from
Amazon you can get one at cap five dot
TV slash echo now given that it is
something that you would be buying from
Amazon yeah
for today's episode and I mean it is
what are we we are on November 27th
we're about something if you're watching
live yeah if you're watching live but if
you're watching this recorded this is
done at November 27th and so Black
Friday starts as of midnight right just
a few short hours for Amazon their Black
Friday deals starts so I mean if you're
gonna if you're sitting there going yeah
you know what I think I'm gonna pick up
a couple of these for those don't forget
our partner links because that's a way
to kick back to us with a little bit of
cash in the jars and help pay for all
the stuff that we do here and so if
you're gonna be buying your various
devices or anything else from Amazon
maybe you're getting some early
Christmas shopping it don't forget to
chat idea partner likes yeah not really
if like when yeah take advantage of the
sales it's category 5 TV slash partners
we'll get you there Sasha it's time to
head over to the newsroom are you all
set sure em here's what's coming up in
the category 5 TV news
the Department of National Defense is
joining the fight against 5g citing
risks to GPS and military operations
google is serious about ensuring the
pixel line of Android phones is secure
they've announced that they'll pay
security researchers up to 1.5 million
dollars to find hacks and exploits the
official site for the Monaro digital
coin was hacked to deliver currency
stealing malware to users who were
downloading wallet software and wouldn't
it be nice if there is a Facebook rival
well there is and it's founded by the
guy who built Wikipedia
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show this is the
category 5 dot TV newsroom covering the
week stop texting with a slight linux
bias I'm Sacha Rickman joined this week
by Jeff Westen here's some quick
honorable mentions this week Tesla CEO
Elon Musk
suggested late Tuesday that his company
had now received 250,000 pre-orders for
the cyber truck it's Blade Runner
inspired electric pickup Tesla's unveil
event for its first pickup truck was
marred by the vehicles window breaking
when an executive threw a meatball at
them in an effort to demo some Ron
Burgundy all right well anyway so ladies
and gentlemen there was a apparently a
meatball that went through the window
you know just keep going after the
meatball Jeff it turns out the safe test
was performed before in fact that went
perfectly the cars trapezoid shape was
also mocked in various memes even the
official social media pages for Lego had
their go at the cyber truck but included
innovative
roof racks mr. musk has said on Twitter
that the recent cyber truck is so
cleaner is that it can't stamp ultra
hard 30 times steel because it breaks
the stamping press despite the initial
social media storm on people mocking the
trucks design others had praised the
cyber track for bringing something new
to the table wise cam owners will soon
find an update removes the AI driven
person detection from their device due
to the unexpected termination of the
agreement Waze had with their AI
provider in waze's commitment wise wise
oh my gosh
meatball ways for free they're stating
that their own AI division to bring back
person direction and other AI
improvements to the motion detection
wise is being praised by its users on
social media for their transparency
though what is not the what is no doubt
a difficult situation for their staff
the new firmware which removes the AI
features is planned for mid-january 2020
there's no ETA yet as to when their new
in-house solution will be ready let's
get into the top stories we're following
this week the Department of Defense is
risks to GPS and military operations the
issue is with a proposal before the
Federal Communications Commission to
open the 1 to 2 gigahertz frequency
range the L band for use in 5g cellular
networks the problem is that some of
those frequencies are already in use by
the global positioning system and other
military systems in a letter to FCC
Chairman a edgy PI Secretary of Defense
Mark Esper pressed for the rejection of
the proposal saying quote there are too
many unknowns and the risks are far too
great to federal operations to allow the
proposed system to proceed this could
have a significant negative impact on
military operations both in peacetime
and war end quote while supporters of
the proposal asite the low power of the
transmitters and say this should not
cause interference studies performed in
2011
show that GPS signals arriving from
space could be overpowered by even low
powered ground-based transmissions
thanks to the inverse-square law a
report from the national space-based
positioning navigation and timing
systems engineering forum noted that the
tests demonstrated that there are
significantly detrimental impacts to all
GPS applications assessed and quote and
if either we're like approaching that
time when there just aren't enough
frequencies left like do you think that
we're almost there yeah it sounds like
we're there they're using frequencies
that are already in use there are more
frequencies we can just tap into let's
jump into the 50 gigahertz band and see
what it does to our brains like that's
the thing alright it's safe we've had
Wi-Fi interviews covering in the past
how they want to split up the way that
they're doing Wi-Fi in the home so it
makes me wonder if there's a way to take
some of these bands and kind of do the
same deal you know because it was I
forget what the technology was called
but it was an innovative new approach
that basically was kind of like you know
adding more lanes to a highway when it
comes to Wi-Fi and so I wonder if
something like that could add more bands
without necessarily boosting to a higher
power but you still need in order to
have more bands if you will using your
terms if you need more frequencies right
so but if they put things on I think
what the issue here is the misconception
that terrestrial low powered broadcast
will not interfere with the big powerful
satellites that have really powerful
broadcast well thanks to the
inverse-square exactly anybody who has
ever done karaoke knows that if you take
the left and right channel and invert
one of them and overlap them you get a
mono signal and it takes the vocals out
well how does that happen
it happens because typically vocals are
in the middle so it by in inverting your
phasing out the middle channel so
similarly you're gonna get an like that
kind of
fact we're two overlapping signals
you're going to cause interference that
is going to actually phase out certain
portions of that signal and I think
that's the concern that has been brought
forward but of course those who are
creating the low powered terrestrial
signals are saying oh no these are just
low powered signals it's not going to
cause any problem but meanwhile yeah
there's a very real chance that it could
so I wonder what the solution would be I
would think that the military should
probably have a frequency that couldn't
be like the alb and thing is they've
they've been using their own band but
that but the issue I think is that I
mean I'm speculating because I'm not on
the inner circle of the US military
obviously I can't even get a meatball
right but the thing is the military has
always been ahead of the curve when it
comes to technology yes and it makes me
wonder if we've kind of hit this period
in in our world where technology is
starting to advance faster than what the
military can advance and so the issue
they're running into is that society is
catching up right and so is it possible
that we're reaching a point I mean not
even just about a signal but that in
general the world has started to nip at
the heels of military advancement
because of so many companies and so many
smart people out there doing crazy
things under personal Enterprise that
the military is going can we keep up
right and what does this mean yeah I
kind of stay ahead of that curve yes
then they say okay no more 5g really to
233 computers because that's I mean
that's the only thing they can do right
now it really would mess with their
safety right their security and well I
mean look at I'm gonna say was a couple
years ago we had that whole GPS issue
where people were using their Fitbit at
secret military base and it was pointing
up on a map yeah because they're walking
around like technology has reached a
point where we're going
what kind of other implications are we
not paying attention to that just seems
so benign but really is a big concern
and this is one where the military may
actually have a very legit concern going
this could be a national security risk
if we have you know special signals that
get intercepted by Joe Blow with his you
know low frequency stuff at home it's
very true I don't know I don't even I
don't know how to properly answer the
concern to be honest I don't either but
it's an interesting story to follow for
her mm-hmm Google is serious about
ensuring the pixel line of Android
phones is secure they've announced that
they'll pay security researchers up to
1.5 million dollars to find hacks and
exploits the company said Thursday that
effective immediately they'll pay 1
million dollars for a quote full chain
remote code execution exploit with
persistent which compromises the Titan M
secure element on pixel devices and
quote they'll also pay $500,000 for
exploits that covertly steal data from a
pixel or bypass its lock screen Google
will offer a 50% bonus to any of its
rewards if the exploit works on specific
Developer Preview versions of Android
that means a critical Titan M hack on a
Developer Preview could fetch 1.5
million dollars and a data exfiltration
or lock screen bypass could earn 750
thousand dollars and so on
previously rewards for the most severe
Android exploits topped out at $200,000
the big reward bump coincides with the
investments Google has poured into
securing the pixel the Titan M is a
Google designed chip that's physically
segregated from the main chipset of the
device Titan M was first introduced in
2018 with the rollout of the pixel 3
it's also in the recently released pixel
3a and will also be included in the just
released pixel for security researcher
Salim Rashid suspects we're in the midst
of an iOS Android security paradigm
shift
to understand the significance of
Google's announcement third party
exploit brokers 0 diem will pay hackers
$100,000 to weaponize a lockscreen
bypass on either iOS or Android Google
are offering up to seven and a half
times as much Wow so that's that's
really just smart thinking really
because it's worth the money to pay to
make sure that there isn't going to be
an exploit by somebody malicious you
great you just really want to be I guess
you want to be enticing enough that
nobody's going to pay more for the
exploit right and what you yeah and you
may as well use it for good right if if
someone's gonna hack the operating
system of an android device a pixel
device may as well give them enough
incentive that instead of selling that
to the bad guys yes sell it directly to
Google so that they can fix it and
you're gonna get seven and a half times
right I would do it for good and also
for $750,000 no I mean this sounds
self-serving I mean not for myself
because I have no clue how to even go
down that road I am NOT a hacker cracker
at all but this seems like as a
potential self-serving problem for
somebody who goes I found the exploit
yeah I found the problem
Google I realize you're offering 1.5
million but I can sell it on the black
market for 4 million but they can't they
cannot that's the thing they can sell it
for a hundred thousand so Google sang
will give you seven and a half times
that exactly Google is totally out
bidding the highest bidder of any I I
understand that but I mean as we keep
bumping these prices up people are gonna
recognize oh if I find that one exploit
it's gonna be a massive payday and I'm
not happy with 1.5 like right now we're
in 1.5 how long before we're gonna see a
three or a ten or a twenty five million
dollar payoff or an exploit to be
identified because I mean you have to
ask yourself how much money is Google
gonna make in putting out these phones
and you know is somebody gonna looking
to be like yeah it's not good
like this does this just you know read
some selfishness I don't know no I feel
like it's such a good pail like it's
such an amazing reward but I think that
people will actually up their game
trying to find it turns into lecture it
turns into trying to find an easter egg
in Oh some movie that I can't remember
right now there's Easter eggs in a whole
bunch of yes okay but it will make
people try harder to actually find the
exploit making the exploits obvious
faster making it more secure quicker and
then there won't be the option of
selling anything to the that they're I
think that's the end because it's all
right so nobody's gonna be like can I
have 751 if there's anything that we
know like from the whole marketplace of
let's say ransomware just using the
example what do we know about hackers
due to ransomware they want a quick
payday right so if I'm a hacker and I'm
not but if I was and I found this
exploit and was able to create an
exploit for the pixel I'm going to want
what a quick payday so am I gonna go to
the guys that are giving me $100,000 or
am I gonna go to the ones that are
paying me seven hundred and fifty
thousand dollars you know what the
answer to that is that is the idea
behind what Google is doing I suspect
and I think that it's a really good
motivator for for I'll say a motivator a
lot of times what we perceive as a bad
guy in the hacking industry we'll call
it is really just somebody that it has
fallen upon the wrong channel okay if I
find this hack oh I can sell it for a
hundred thousand dollars so if that's my
option now I've got this opportunity to
get a hundred thousand dollars right and
it's not necessarily that they are a bad
person or that they are doing a bad
thing is just well but now it's been
weaponized because the the that group
has bought it so what they're doing is
they're also reallocating the
the brilliant minds of the youth and the
the hacker the hackers and RIA
redirecting that toward correcting the
situation and saying okay we'll give you
more money and and you're gonna you're
helping to improve the security of the
platform right so I think it's a whole
it does so much good I agree
I think they should also offer them a
job to be honest and that that could
happen yeah Microsoft used to do that
years ago when they first set up their
website it was it can happen multiple
layers of security like if you break in
you get a job here I feel like this
whole story is something that like would
inspire Amy didi right like sure just be
like yeah I'm all over this we've got to
take a quick break the crypto report and
more of this week's top tech stories are
coming up don't go anywhere
you
welcome
a quick look at the crypto report and
how things look as of Wednesday November
27th 2019 via our website category 5 dot
TV we've been collecting the data and
looking at how things have been
transitioning over the past week and
we're seeing the Bitcoin is really
losing a fair bit this week dropping
down more than a thousand dollars u.s.
as far as its US dollar equivalent value
down at seven thousand one hundred and
ninety three dollars and change
litecoin is also down I mean everything
is on is on the decline this week it's
at forty six dollars and 87 cents
aetherium is at one forty seven eighty
one Manero is down at fifty one fifty
four not dropping as much as I would
have expected considering the exploit
that happened on their website this week
turtle coin is holding fairly steady
having dropped just zero point zero one
ten thousandth of ascent to zero point
two three and we're now looking at the
basic attention token as well and that
is down from last week at zero
well 21 cents US per coin remember that
this is not we're not providing any kind
of financial advice or investment advice
what we are giving you is just the facts
with regards to cryptocurrency and the
different coins that we are monitoring
here at the studio the cryptocurrency
market never closes
and it's always volatile so make sure
that you only invest what you are able
and willing to lose because it's quite
probable that you may never turn in an
income from it and that's not our intent
we just want to give you the facts you
can find out more at category-five dot
TV click on shows the category-five TV
newsroom and you'll see the crypto
report there and that will just give you
up to up to the day cryptocurrency data
for the coins that we are tracking I'm
gonna head back over the newsroom to you
two
Thank You Ravi the official site for the
Monaro digital coin was hacked to
deliver currency stealing malware to you
speaking of we're downloading a wallet
software mm-hmm yep
the supply-chain attack came to light
last week Monday when a
user reported that the cryptographic
hash for a command line interface wallet
downloaded from the site didn't match
the hash listed on the page over the
next several hours users discovered that
the mismatching hash wasn't the result
of an error instead it was an attack
designed to infect get Manero users with
malware site officials later confirmed
that finding an analysis of the
malicious Linux binary found that it
added a few new functions to the
legitimate one one of the functions was
called after user opened or created a
new wallet it sent the wallet seed which
is the cryptographic secret key used to
access wallet funds to a third party
server the malware then sent wallet
funds to another server at least one
person participating in a reddit forum
claimed to have lost digital coins after
installing the malicious Linux binary a
malicious Windows version of the CLI
wallet carried out an almost identical
attack sequence anyone who downloaded
the CLI Manero wallet on Monday November
18
2019 is advised to check the hashes of
their binaries if they don't match the
official ones delete the files and
download them again do not run
compromised binaries for any reason I
think yeah and this just goes to show
like if there is a checksum difference
so if you've got the md5 or the sha
checksum and it doesn't match what it's
supposed to be just don't even touch it
just like find out what's going on
because you may think hey well that
that's weird it doesn't match well in
this particular case it could have saved
like the one that I heard of like lost
$7,000 out of their wallet as far as US
currency goes and it just you know you
got to be careful and crypto currency is
a really really lucrative target for
malicious attackers and it can happen it
can happen and in this case hey you have
to be really diligent
I mean it would be it would be so simple
just to assume that everything was going
right except here here you go and the
hashes don't match oh yeah well exactly
and I mean I know that there's different
type of wallets you can use like you can
use your cloud-based wallet you can have
a software wallet you can have a paper
wallet that's completely cut off from
the world
but I mean each of them comes with their
own risks I mean and if you're gonna go
with a paper wallet cuz you're like hey
I don't want to be caught by something
like this if you ever lose your paper
you're toast right you know and it's
unfortunate I mean as somebody who is
mined monaro in the past you know it's
so easy to just kind of like oh here's
you know another wall I'm gonna try this
sure and you're not even paying
attention and then you hit your miner
and away you go
you know and you walk away and then
comeback days later to see how you're
doing and in that meantime you've lost
everything because you're not paying
attention and it's so easy to do Jeff
I've even heard of people that will set
up automatic updates for their wallet
software and their mining software and
when you do that and it's it's tough
because a lot of times like scale is a
perfect example where the coin has
changed so many times that it just gets
frustrating because you've got to keep
reinstalling the software so people will
tend to set up an automatic updater and
what happens if that update comes down
the wire and it's malicious that's a big
problem and when it comes to
cryptocurrency
there's there's really no way to get
your money back was gone it's no it's
not like it's a regulated financial
transaction where you know you can buy
insurance on it right it's not insured
in any way it's scary that this is
happening so I feel like early in the
life of cryptocurrency but I know it's
not like early early days but I feel
like it's scary that now as it's
becoming more common knowledge that
cryptocurrency exists and people are
kind of getting right on the bandwagon
in the malls there are Bitcoin vendors
and now this is coming out which makes
me think is this the beginning of a
cycle that's going to gain momentum
and I wonder whether there is going to
be a way then to ensure that that's a
valid concern Sasha yeah but I think
what it is is it's really just like this
is something that's gonna constantly be
under attack so is this gonna be a wake
up call Foreman arrows developers for
example to solidify their security
something went wrong
something allowed this to happen they'll
need to figure out what happened and put
a stop to it and and protect their users
plain and simple it makes me wonder I
mean because you already have the US
government looking at regulatory
oversight and declaring libre from
Facebook
right as securities currency it makes me
wonder if this is gonna open the door
because the issues we've that have gone
around the globe with Bitcoin and now
you've got this issue with monaro if
it's gonna start pushing regulatory
oversight in legislation that says you
know what cryptocurrencies are in fact a
financial transaction they should be
governed by the navvies Commission I
don't fear that no but it makes you it
does make me wonder if it's gonna get to
the point where somebody's gonna bring
that topic up and say this needs to
happen now they're just gonna say too
bad so sad it's not a valid currency
that's how they'll move on yeah and
speaking of Sasha we're gonna jump into
the next story wouldn't it be nice if
there was a facebook rival well there is
and it's founded by the guy who built
Wikipedia Jimmy Wales is expressing
excitement that his new social network
WT social already has more than 160,000
members the platform says it will never
sell user data and relies on the
generosity of individual donors rather
than ads the donations are by way of a
modest subscription fee it is
positioning itself as news focused place
and says members will be able to edit
misleading headlines they will see the
articles shared by their network in a
timeline format appearing with the
newest first rather than algorithms that
try to appeal to their interests the
introduction to WT social says quote we
will empower you to make your own
choices about
content you are served and to directly
edit misleading headlines or flag
problem posts we will foster an
environment where bad actors are removed
because it is right not because it
suddenly affects our bottom line unquote
in a recent interview with the Financial
Times mr. Wales shared his view that the
problem with advertising LED services
such as Facebook is that the winners
often low-quality content social media
consultant consultant Zoe Carnes said
that she thought the network would have
to grow its numbers quickly in order to
prove itself to be an a viable
alternative to the Giants she says quote
it's going to need a lot of money plowed
into it people are so used to social
media being free I think businesses
might pay for it but people are so used
to having news at their fingertips for
free and quote WT social is a separate
entity to Wikipedia and can be found at
WT dot social this is an interesting one
I would say that this is not necessarily
something that I'm going to immediately
delve into but I like the idea of paying
for the idea that my stuff is never
gonna be sold like if I think you're not
going to be from the sound of it you're
not going to be manipulated right by
what is making them money exactly now
the tricky part about it is a little bit
like in the back of my mind I think
Wikipedia isn't like a super reliable
source when you're doing research but
this isn't about research this is about
entertaining news stories social media
yeah see I wonder though like I get what
they're going for and and I get the
whole subscription-based thing whatever
that modest fee might be I don't know if
it's something I will but would you pay
fourteen now see I don't think I would
because once they get you hooked then
the fees go up because oh it's more
expensive we've got it Wow Jeff is like
all over like as soon as you give them
five dollars it'll be ten dollars time
okay that's the way that Netflix was and
I mean as they keep pushing on new
content which I I'm not knocking Netflix
but I mean you get locked in at 7:19
what was a ten years ago and now you're
looking at 1499 like the price is
doubled and you're still getting the
same services just extra content they're
producing more show but I mean that's
Netflix the whole point with this thing
my concern though is the fact that it's
user edited input like we already have a
problem now with fake news and milla
manipulated the opposite of fake news
though I understand that but somebody
added I mean you see this now with
Wikipedia I mean what was it about for
15 years there was a fake religious god
that was on Wikipedia that was deemed to
be real but in fact it wasn't because
somebody put something on there that
wasn't true and it never got caught so
what's to say you have a news article
where somebody goes hey you know what
this is this is a great article but I
think I need to change it just just
slightly so that it's 98% true but
there's a little bit of false fact in it
and suddenly it continues to grow and it
takes off we already have this problem
now the whole idea of having a social
medias subscription-based service that
people can then edit and alter the news
on I find wrong but the alternative is a
social media platform where you don't
have the opportunity to edit those who
have the money control exactly those who
have who put billions of dollars into it
are able to control and edit so if
you're given the choice of only two
things you're given Facebook or WT
social Facebook is free but right but
you're going to be manipulated according
to what they think you want to see
social is going to show you news stories
that could perhaps be edited by peers so
the question becomes then Jeff would you
give WT social a chance by trying it for
a couple of months just to see if your
concerns are valid or are you so dead
set against this kind of idea I mean I
love the idea of Wikipedia I love that
social aspect of sharing and Fries I do
too and I and I use
Media often I would be willing to give
WT social a try not interested in paying
for it yeah like if they want to get
people on board they need to open up the
doors for say three or six months get
people sucked in where it's free they
start building a presence there because
so many people I think are gonna turn an
eye to this and go I'm not putting up
many money for something where there's
only 160,000 people I have to just say
that actually nothing is free no it's
true that I I understand that right way
or another you're paying for it so I
would rather actually pay money out of
my pocket than to try and be afraid of
where they're making money on my behalf
like where where are they getting the
money from me existing like but there's
on that but there's no way that you're
gonna be able to say that the data and
how you use their site still isn't going
to be used for somebody's personal game
they said they're not going to sell it
it doesn't mean the fact that they can't
have subsidiary companies that utilize
that same information or really Jeff
we're getting into speculative this is
all speculation and I don't like to go
there and I actually love the idea that
somebody any somebody's got to do
something different is coming up and
saying hey you're not stuck with the one
choice there is now going to be other
choices and maybe this isn't the only
one that's gonna exist this is the first
of maybe many I agree that there's
always going to be changing options I
just there's something about it just
kind of thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight lytx
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at e3 on.com slash
newsroom
from the category 5 TV newsroom and sash
your estimate I'm Robbie Ferguson and
I'm Jeff Lester we've been to take a
really quick break folks stick around
well thank you so much for joining us
this week everybody it's been a blast it
is time for us to add more space to our
storage server and here at the studio of
course we produce HD and now ultra HD
video every single week and we've been
doing so now we're in our 13th season of
doing so every single week and that
takes up a lot of space but the question
now becomes do we add more spinning
discs to our storage server as we've
always done or is it time to switch to
SSDs and then we say well is it really
worth going to SSDs and I'm talking
enterprise level Kingston SSDs is it
gonna be worth it and so we're actually
going to put it to the test we're gonna
look at the thermals we're gonna look at
the speed we're gonna look at how well
they perform in as a replacement storage
device so pulling out the old spinning
drives and putting in some new SSDs
let's see how things are gonna change so
that's all happening next week I hope
that you'll be able to join us thank you
so much again for being here with us
this week I'm Robbie Ferguson say and
have a great night and you too over
there see everybody
