welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 619 and this week we
are looking at a kks B case this is what
we've looked at kick ass beep cases in
the past they are fantastic solid steel
cases four single board computers cool
this one's built for the Raspberry Pi 3
B+ and those type of form factor and it
has a 7 inch capacitive touchscreen
built-in
I said don't want to miss out on this
folks stick around our live recordings
are trusted only to solid-state drives
by Kingston technology revive your
computer with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPM and the International
Association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV /ia IP Oh welcome to the show
everybody its episode number 619 and it
is wonderful having you here we've got a
great show planned for you but before we
get into it I want to remind you make
sure you subscribe to us on YouTube and
click that bell and that's going to make
sure that you get the notifications
anytime we post new valuable content or
when we are lies yes yes we don't want
you to miss it we do not want you to
miss it absolutely so we appreciate
everyone who does subscribe hey this
week we are looking at the KK SB 7-inch
Raspberry Pi screen case yes it's like a
big long name but basically we've looked
at a KK SB case before that has the 13
inch screen yes that thing is fantastic
but I need something a little more
portable a little more like fit in your
bag and take it with you wherever you go
kind of thing ok we're all fans of
Raspberry Pi here micro computing and
KSP makes some of the greatest cases so
let's get right into it I'm just gonna
jump right down here I've got everything
I need
yeah got my trusty Raspberry Pi 3b plus
I've got a can of cat 2.5 amp power
supply for the Raspberry Pi and we've
got the case this is from KK SB you can
get one at cat 5 TV /pi but this is not
an advertisement this is not late night
television to try to sell you something
I want to show you I want to show you
but I want to make sure that you have
access to it at the same time so let's
get into the box and let's see your
boxing here we're not a boxing at the
unboxing you know what I'm just gonna do
it right here Jeff goodness oh wow
okay we've got a lint-free cloth for
wiping it down we've got the manual for
a screen so this is of course like the
last one it's a capacitive touch screen
and this one is just a lot more like
tiny oh but at the same time it's got
the same quality that you expect from
kks B this is a let's see here oh it's
like stuck to the tape there we go it
works this is a laser-cut powder-coated
high-grade steel case this looks amazing
very nice right so professional there
you go these are some of the best cases
as far as the ruggedness and the quality
they are just fantastic the screen is
1024 by 600 it is touchscreen and and it
actually is going to well it's going to
connect to a Raspberry Pi right here so
perfect let's see what else is in the
box and then let's see about what it
takes to get this thing set up so we've
got cables here very important very
important mm-hmm
a nice short HDMI cable to connect the
screen which is nice because it rather
than having a big long length that
you've got a wrap up comes with that one
we've got USB which I don't see a power
cord for this particular screen so I
imagine that the USB is going to not
only provide the touch screen
capabilities but also the power to the
seven inch screen of salvan and then
we've got some screws they're always fun
but not a little bit there and an allen
key and I'm not sure my name and we've
got the the actual stand as well for
nice for a level surface okay so let's
get into this guy right here so we've
got that's not the one let's see we've
got an allen key right here I'd like you
to meet my friend Allen now let's pull
this thing apart all right so with this
be easier than building IKEA furniture
so far definitely yes I kind of like
that it doesn't come in pieces mmm it
comes assembled so I can see exactly how
it's gonna go back together Henry okay
I'd like to point out nobody's read the
manual yet was there a manual well the
manuals for the screening thing how how
difficult is it gonna what is the screen
manual tell screws on the back for the
note you need to first connect the USB
cable before the HDMI cable otherwise
the backlight may cannot turn on no
cannot so that's for the screen itself
yes but had you've done it the other way
you would have been like oh it doesn't
work we're in Jeff we've got a couple of
standoffs here just pulling those off
with my fingers wow the big motion this
is impressive oh yeah yes I will believe
you there
Jeff will translate our manual for us
there we are okay let's get into our
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ all right fresh out of
the box fresh out of the box nice come
on now there we are
all right and that is gonna go right in
there just like we expect from kks B it
is just that a beautiful perfect fit
standoffs are gonna go back on
I have no clue what potente ohmmeter is
potentiometer oh now we know clothes
that does not look like that at all
potential meter and apparently there's
ghost problems
oh don't ghost me who are you gonna call
there we are
well it fits in there nice quite nicely
oh yeah now obviously this won't work
for a Raspberry Pi with the fam you'd
have to use the heatsink now why do you
think that Jeff you said obviously so I
want to know what makes it seem obvious
well it's a metal case and it doesn't
have the hole for the fan my dear friend
how where does the fan connector that's
how do you mean power no no where you
gonna put the fan in so to screw it in
yeah well this goes on top yeah I will
have you know a little fan yeah you
could but when you do couldn't you just
have one that is built into the heatsink
I would I think it's still meant for the
for the heatsink I don't know okay like
I'm trying to think my Raspberry Pi at
home with the friend I don't think the
fan would fit because it's one that you
screw into it yeah case oh yeah that's a
little different in that case Jeff what
I would do if you wanted to put a fan on
here yeah is I would just put a little
bit of 3m double-sided tape on the film
just around the edge of the fan and then
you can actually stick the fan on here
that's gonna hold it nice and snug if
you don't have double sided tape a
little bit of hot glue that'll hold it
there yep that works fair enough alright
so let's all right put the case back on
there we are we've got the Raspberry Pi
3 B+ in its place
line that up looking professional oh
yeah we say welcome back to Linden was
in the cherry Linden very long time
yeah good to have you back dude all
right put those screws in this is some
exciting TV right here I can almost just
tell you wow there's screws to hold this
all together we don't necessarily have
to put them together live on the air but
I can you you you pay attention to those
small details those little details
details riveting nature of cat5 it is
look at those screws be look at that
folks tonight and because we're live I
can't even speed it up that's right you
know there we are and you just kind of
feel your way with these big long screws
right and get that I just feel so
excited we go about all the potential
uses for this
yeah you know with this I mean as I'm
looking at it my first thought is a
photo frame you don't want to be perfect
for that but a smart photo frame yeah
how about that
something that connects to a server and
grabs your photos from the server yeah
and rotates through them or could you
even write a script for the PI to pull
it from say like your Facebook or
Instagram sure there yeah and that way
as you go live with new photos they
update instantly you could have it to
search through your photos for certain
tags yeah in the descriptions see that
would work for safe it's all there is to
it for odd oh yeah you like an elderly
parent or grandparent that doesn't have
facebook that wants to get constant
updates photos the thing to remember
with this Jeff is it is a full Linux
computer that is true so nothing to it
it's it's literally Linux so and it's a
computer it's not just a screen anything
yeah all right so then finally we've got
this guy on the back just gonna screw
that together okay yeah her small
business or something and you set up a
kiosk or looks I like that idea if you
just want like a little
tablet drawn that's right it could be so
many things what I do like is that it
has the screw holes on the base mount as
well so that you can secure it mm-hmm
you know depending on what you're using
it for it's not gonna move around so
what Jeff is talking about as I so
sophisticatedly put this together for
you I mean I'm doing this kinda on the
side as the guys are talking so I mean
you can imagine it's not very difficult
to assemble right I'm doing my thing
what Jeff's talking about is if you were
to use this in a business environment or
a school environment you don't want
someone walking off with it and it
actually has screw holes so we've got
three screw holes we can actually mount
this on the counter in such a way that
nobody can walk off with it there you go
Yeti wizard asks how is this display
different than the stock pie display so
if you get the stock pie display or
anything else is it capacitive touch
this screen is I mean this is the the
wave share touch screen so we know that
wave share makes some excellent screens
I'm not gonna lie I've got two more
screws to put in but I just want to kind
of expedite things it's solid so but
what we're looking at here is yeah this
guy all right so we've got USB for power
and that's gonna go in here that also
gives us the touch capability now did
you do it in proper fashion
well I plugged it in first Jeff to know
that this USB before the HDMI you did it
doesn't matter excellent doesn't matter
power
explodes in my hands all that's left is
the little stand that's awesome
here we go all right so some would look
at this and say okay that's a little bit
janky because you've got these cables
sticking out the side right yeah there's
something that I love about that it'll
work with any SBC that you can connect
to it that is so keep in mind if you
want to do Raspberry Pi 3 B+ like I'm
doing here today it's gonna work
perfectly but what if you want to go
with like a anna sue stinker board what
is gonna fit this case - cool that's
right yeah you're not limited to the I
oh yeah you're not limited to the
capabilities of a particular proprietary
cable that only works on Raspberry Pi
right so there you have it that's all
there is to assembly now in the
instructions there is a little bit of
code that you need to add to raspbian
there's a config that you need to add
it's right here so you just open up the
file the on your boot partition and add
four lines of code in notepad five yeah
5
yes instructions right there yep there
it is so hold on to that because you
will need the instructions to add that
little bit of code and all that does is
it sets the resolution to 1024 by 600 it
sets it to HDMI mode 87 and it and it
sets the position of the screen and the
overscan so that you don't have black
borders around on the screen okay but
more importantly it forces you to read
the manual there's five lines the five
lines in the manual that's all you need
but make sure you plug in the USB first
otherwise as Henry explained it will
explode these are the KSP seven inch
screen cases I can't really give you the
impression that I have of it other than
like this is rugged this feels I mean
this is professional it looks
professional it's much more solid it's
not there's no plastic seen here the
cables you can tuck them in as best you
can but you can also just get like an L
connector right like an L yeah you could
do that minimize it I don't mind the
cables because I like the fact that I
can use this for anything and you can in
fact because this full-sized HDMI unplug
the Raspberry Pi and use this as a
screen for any HDMI device and then plug
it back in again and you're back to
using it as a Raspberry Pi nice so it is
not compatible with the Raspberry Pi 4
out of the box and that is because
Raspberry Pi 4 has a different placement
of the HDMI outputs plus it's a micro
HDMI versus at two of them versus a
full-sized HDMI
so it's not that you couldn't fan
dangled something to make it work if
you've got the ability to cut steel you
would be able to punch a little hole to
be able to make it so that it works with
a Raspberry Pi for there's no limit to
like the screen will work with it yep
but the case itself because it's built
for a Raspberry Pi 3 B+ and before
that's the type of output for the HDMI
that the case is compatible with ok so
that's what we're up against with the
Raspberry Pi 4 but it's not to say that
you couldn't do a little bit of nice
hardware hacking to make it work sounds
like a challenge
let's make it so then we can like
control a drone or something ooh order
let's get on that code it's a full
computer guys so I mean come up with
some ideas let us know how you would use
this is it a kiosk is it a little
computer to be playing games on is it
something that you want to be its
touchscreen so hey you could use that I
could install Google remote desktop on
that and I could control Telestream
Wirecast using a touchscreen
there you go on a Raspberry Pi I like
that in real time now you could use a
USB to hook up to say a webcam sure and
you could use that for video
conferencing that's true too yeah that
would be a great little
videoconferencing unit can I get like a
little command and control center for
your house yeah or your basement there
you go I'm sure gamehole from a narrow
driver come up with something cool that
guy just like yeah zombify is ever set
to it set to it all right folks get
yours a cat 5 dot TV /pi we've got some
links there in order to to take a look
at those and we've got the purchase
links and more information as well we've
got to take a really quick break now
when we come back we're gonna be
learning how to use the free GNU image
manipulation program do a little bit of
graphic editing but we're gonna use
we're gonna use it specifically to
create thumbnails for our YouTube videos
that really pop you're gonna learn some
strategies that are gonna transcend just
the YouTube thumbnail so don't think oh
I don't broadcast on YouTube so I don't
need it we're gonna learn all kinds of
neat little tricks on the GNU image
manipulation program stick around
[Music]
welcome back everybody this is category
five technology TV I'm Robby Ferguson
I'm Jeff Wesson I'm Henry Bailey Brennan
nice to have you here we are looking at
the GNU image manipulation program and
just before just during the break we
took this picture and we're gonna turn
this into an amazing thumbnail for
YouTube that is going to pop now if
you're not a youtuber it's okay you're
gonna learn some really neat strategies
today in order to do some editing in
this free visual editor this photo
editor called the GIMP or GNU image
manipulation program you can download it
absolutely free for Windows Mac and
Linux at gimp.org let's get right into
it okay so one of the things that we
need to do is we need to cut ourselves
out of this picture so all I'm going to
do is I'm going to use this lasso
marquee which they call the free select
tool and I'm gonna click a single point
at the bottom of my arm here and as I
follow along see it's a straight line
Henry yes I can actually click on points
and trace around my torso really really
easily now if I mess up like that I can
actually move these lines perfect so
it's like a nice little pen tool they
can kind of like cut things out or
something
exactly oh so we actually want to be
able to cut each of us out of this photo
it's just a really really quick job I'm
doing this really really quickly on the
air so that this doesn't take up all of
our time but you can take it as much
time as you want to do this yeah we're
just gonna get around here I don't want
to have a little bit of a flat head
there so I'm just gonna fix that don't
you love that you can do that in the GNU
image manipulation program so I mean if
I I've done that by accident I can grab
this point and bring it back in
excellent see that I can go back to this
point bring it back in so it's as easy
as that
going around me okay
nice and easy brilliant right okay I got
me I'll just do that boom hit enter and
now control-c control-v I've created a
new floating selection I'm going to
right click and go layer to new layer
now if I turn off that background layer
it's just Robbie yeah so now I'm gonna
get the next guy so this is the Jeff is
behind me so I don't have to trace
around my arm I can just start anywhere
in my arm okay and trace around Jeff
here we go nice face there death by the
way thank you I said smile and he's so
happy yeah happy to be here make sure
you can curvature of the hair right oh
yes it's so much easier when you're bald
if you got spiky hair you're gonna have
trouble with this I could just use the
round circle marquee and it would do
just fine there we go see how easy that
one was enter and now back to the first
layer I don't want to copy on my layer I
want a copy on the bottom layer
control-c control-v right click layer
two new layer now turn it off that's
what we have well I can turn off Jeff oh
I can turn off me or two separate layers
that's happy now let's go over to Henri
see how quickly this can be done again
we're using the lasso marquee aka free
select and we'll trace around Henri like
a pro yeah good thing I got my hair cut
as you're doing this Yeti wizard is
asking in the chat room wouldn't you
want to use the feather to selection to
smooth the edges to the cut or something
like that if you wanted to get that
precise no not in this case because
we're not that's not what we're doing so
what we're doing is we're creating a
border I'm gonna show you how this works
I've got Henry and I'm gonna control see
now what what was being asked there as
if I should feather it and give it a
softer edge no I don't want that in this
case I want a hard edge on these photos
so now it looks like that okay
claire's Henry oh no I'm done there's
Jeff there's me okay see how quick and
easy that is so now
I'm gonna go to my lair and I'm gonna
right click on the layer you're gonna
understand why I don't want to feather
I'm gonna go alpha to selection and now
it's actually going to select me
perfectly now I'm going to right-click
and I need to go layer layer to image
size okay so that now see how the orange
box is around me yep
if I go layer layer to image size that
orange box is now the image size so now
because I right clicked on my layer and
chose alpha to selection I am perfectly
bordered okay so now I'm gonna right
click and go select grow and let's try
this is 50 100 pixels wide so I'm gonna
try 30 pixels and hit enter you're gonna
see that layer that selection grow
around me okay okay let's see that so
now I'm gonna go one layer below me
which is the Jeff layer and I'm gonna
right click and go new layer feel like
this is some hierarchy of the show
okay so I've created a new layer which
is absolutely blank and I'm gonna right
I'm gonna actually first click on here
make sure that I've got white selected
and right click and then fill with the
white color so now I've got this perfect
board or right around me I'm gonna see
that so if I turn off my layer it
actually looks like that
okay but it's 30 pixels bigger than me
okay awesome oh now I'm gonna do the
exact same thing to Jeff I'm gonna go
alpha to selection right click layer
layer to image size right click select
grow so I want to make that that border
him get that selection now I'm gonna go
to Henry's layer one layer below Jeff
create a new empty layer right click
Edit fill ok see what's happening there
now gonna go to Henry same thing what am
I gonna do Oh what did I just have I
right clicked on something
all right Jeff tell me what I'm gonna do
ok I'm gonna right click I'm gonna go
alpha to selection then what's next I'm
gonna right click and I'm gonna go layer
layer to image size yep
okay now I'm gonna right click select
grow by 3030 same for each guy and then
I'm gonna go one layer below and I'm
gonna create a new layer and then I'm
gonna fill my marquee with white exact
so now you've seen it on YouTube we've
got this perfect border around each of
us it's beautiful right within the image
see that okay now I'm gonna blur that
background a little bit so I'm going to
go back to the background layer I'm
gonna go right click and go filters blur
Gaussian blur you know what I actually
prefer the legacy blur feature so Walter
that blur I think it's just a little
it's the feeling yeah well this is the
one that it's included though so let's
let's increase the size of the blur
let's see what that's gonna do for my
background see how it's just kind of
bringing the focus off of that I don't
want it to be too stark I just want to
bring us out of the photo a little bit
see that is there we go okay next step
so there I've got a bit of a blur on
that background next step I'm going to
right click and I'm gonna go image
canvas size now what do we know about
our thumbnails we need to make sure that
they are proportional sixteen over nine
so 1920 by 1080 is a traditional 1080p
video dimension now if we don't size our
image correctly to 16 over nine we're
gonna have black bars either on the top
and bottom or the left and right of our
thumbnail yeah so because this is for
youtube we're gonna I'm gonna actually
just copy the width so what I've done is
I've gone image canvas size and copy the
width that's where I'm going to start so
just double click and control see now
I'm gonna go 1920 and make a mental note
of 2 9 1 6 so 1080 then I'm gonna turn
on this link between them and then re
paste my width there we go okay so this
is already 16 over 9 perfect it is
perfect excellent because the it still
remained with a height of 29 16 so I
don't need to rescale this at all re
crop the the canvas now while you were
doing that you hazard
the question okay cat room and wanting
to know the significance of using the
different sizes of the layers between
the image size versus the selection size
and as I see it and correct me if I'm
wrong on this one if you went by the
selection size you wouldn't be able to
then do the expansion of 30 pixels
because the selection size is to what
you cut whereas we mean when we when we
change the layer to the image size
that's right so that when you do the
outside then you have more to work with
is that correct can I explain so I I've
taken no not wrong just let me explain
it in a real easy-to-understand way
so when I cut out me okay as an example
er we cut out you now I copy you to the
clipboard and paste so now the layer
ends right here right so now if I grow
30 pixels it goes beyond there it's
gonna go beyond the no not the selection
the the selection is going to go beyond
the the border of the layer right so now
when I fill it's gonna get cut off 30
pixels above your head right yeah
because the white is now higher you're
outside of the layer right right so by
making the layer fill the entire canvas
size now we can then go beyond 30 pixels
beyond the top bottom left right edge of
the layer of the image it's what I
matter guys didn't say it that way
alright so there we go folks there's our
image for the thumbnail but we need to
have text okay and there's you've got
text on your shirt yeah so there's a way
to do this that YouTube just loves let's
grab let's try the impact font to start
so I've selected the text tool here and
then I've selected my font and I'm gonna
scroll and see if we can find impact
let's see it's a little hard to scroll
can you not just hit I to go to does not
work that way probably
no I wouldn't shake a age
hi it's not an order yeah okay I don't
have impact what which is fine if I
don't have the MST because I'm on Linux
so if I don't have Microsoft fonts
installed it's okay
impact is one that is definitely going
to work well for this but what I'm gonna
do is I'm gonna create a text box let's
actually put this on a top layer so I'm
gonna create a new layer there we go and
let's just find a font that we like okay
there we go
just create that like that and let's
call this episode 7-inch Raspberry Pi
screen just like that okay so now it's
this very very little text I'm gonna
make that a lot bigger
let's try 200 point that's a 200 pics
it's too still too small 500 a little
bit too big dream yeah 350 well I'll
just kind of use the arrow here to go
down but now let's let's find a font
that we like so I'm actually gonna go up
to the top right here so that I can
click on one font and then use my arrow
key to move down see that okay so I kind
of like that that's San serif bold
italic and then I'm gonna just make it
so that it all fits on one line so I'm
just gonna go down down down down down
down down
mm-hm till we get there almost there
honey i shrunk the text know that was
there come on baby
I called 350 I think it's gonna be close
oh we're at 375 this can be different
depending on the resolution of your
image so the numbers that we're using
for the size of the font
Oh 342 it's so close Jeff within seven
but let's go down to let's try 325
because we need a little bit of space on
the edge now I'm gonna change that font
to white so there we go and I'm gonna
position that just down here okay now
here's where things get a little
interesting I'm gonna again right click
on my font and go alpha to selection and
this is cool because we
rasterizing the font I've created a
selection of the font I'm not using like
the magic wand selection - or something
silly like that no I'm actually
selecting the Alpha of the of the the
font so now I can right click and I can
go select grow
let's try 30 again and now one layer
below right click and go new layer and
this time we're gonna fill black our
foreground color there we go so now it
just pops right out so now on that black
layer I can right click again and go
filter light and shadow let's use a
legacy drop shadow I'm going to turn off
allow resizing because we don't want it
to mess with our dimensions of the image
I'm going to turn off the offset and set
my blur radius to 50 pixels and the
opacity - let's try it in like 90 and
then hit OK and there we go we've just
got like a subtle kind of pop-out glow
there nice there you have it so there's
our thumbnail folks very cool all done
all done through the GNU image
manipulation program and you might have
thought that putting a border around
everybody was gonna be a lot of work
yeah it's actually super simple so there
you know you can take it one step
further and you can say you know what I
want to change the background so you can
turn off that background layer and pop
us on a different background and be
white in Hawaii that's fine by me but
quite quite typically what folks will do
is they'll grab two shades of the same
color and create a new layer down here
and let's get it go okay and then let's
use a gradient and we'll change this to
a radial shape and let's grab it from my
teeth over to here you know and do
something like that you've seen that
kind of thing happens as well I can
reverse that so behind my head is the
lighter of the two colors there we go
again the top layer the glows behind you
exactly you want me to put your arm in
front of my arm
alright alright that's a GNU image
manipulation program check it out at
gimp.org it's absolutely free no matter
what platform you're on go grab it
very nice cool well it's time to head
over to the newsroom Jeff if you are set
I am take it away my friend all right
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
scanning of random reports and the use
of encrypted malware by online criminals
is on the rise according to a threat
report by SonicWALL a semi-autonomous
robot designed to operate in hostile
environments has been developed by NASA
and word is that it could be used to
help build a base on Mars
ESET researchers discovered a new
Android ransomware family that attempts
to spread to victims contacts and
deploys some unusual tricks and linus
torvalds the creator of linux is killing
off support for legacy disk drive tech
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering a week's top tech space
slang Linux bias I'm Jeff lesson and
here the top stories were following this
week scanning of random ports and the
use of encrypted malware by online
criminals is on the rise according to a
threat report by SonicWALL based on
SonicWALL sampling of what it says were
700 million such intrusions by the end
of 2018 around 20 percent of all male
malware attacks were coming through
non-standard ports a some of which had
decreased by 13% compared to 2018
the company explained that non-standard
meant ports which are not in routine use
by other programs such as ports 80 and
443 for one's web browser SonicWALL
chief executive bill Connor says those
in charge of malware deployments are
certainly cognizant of this blind spot
and continued he actively exploited
organizations aren't prepared for
protecting this attack vector with the
same diligence as standard ports
encrypted malware was something else
that SonicWALL said was on the rise
increasing by a quarter compared to the
preceding 12 months the 2018 in 2018 the
company said that it had logged more
than two point eight million encrypted
malware attacks a twenty seven percent
jump over the previous year a variety of
factors contributed to this trend in
sonic walls view ransomware as a service
that's RAAS open source malware kits and
cryptocurrencies bounce back up this is
what the firm set with ransomware
continuing to be a successful moneymaker
for criminals that are deploying it
Connor says I'm certain that a number of
HAARP high profile ransomware cases
involving major US cities it's also
signal that there are still large
vulnerable targets out there despite
ransomware being a headline for the past
four to five years not to point any
fingers or anything yeah I'll just say
some high profile cities in the United
States that maybe have been attacked by
ransomware so what shocks me kind of
about this is that after this length of
time yeah we're going oh there's other
ports we should be looking at mmm I like
to me that's common sense
yeah I use CSF lfd on my servers and it
watches for port scans
and blocks the IP address if someone
tries one right but it's absolutely
secure it shows that security through
obscurity is not security at all because
some people will do this where oh yeah I
need Remote Desktop so I just won't use
3389 I'll use 33 92 nobody will ever
guess that or whatever right but a port
scan actually looks incrementally at all
the ports and most likely you're not
blocking those port scans and if that's
the case and they find that 33 92 as
opposed to 30 389 and they see that
that's the RDP protocol that's running
well yeah if I just said a whole bunch
of things that make absolutely no sense
just know that this is a serious issue
but that's what kind of bothers me is
like that is not common thinking for me
but at the same time I think of that and
go you need to be monitoring all the
ports
why would security professionals not be
thinking that way from the get-go
there's two approaches one is to monitor
all the ports yes but the second is just
to lock down by default mm-hmm 100% all
ports are closed unless you open them
unless you specifically open the ports
try doing that at home became a bit of a
pain in the butt mm-hm
but then still if a port scan takes
place what what action is being taken
mm-hmm like is there a way to hide your
ports though so then they don't respond
saying oh this port is open this port is
good if they are open they will
presumably respond but is there a way to
like hide yourself besides unplugging
your computer kind of like a port
cloaking device yeah it's like that the
best way is to have a proper firewall in
place that uses login failure daemon or
something like that so that okay yeah
port 22 is open but if they guess the
wrong password three times lock their IP
address out of my network right right
because if I'm SSA Qing to my server I
know my password I know my key
so if you're if you're not using
something like lfd login failure daemon
you
have no protection against somebody
brute-forcing over and over once they
find that try to get in yeah yeah and
that's exactly why ransomware is a thing
because they're finding Remote Desktop
Protocol enabled on networks and they're
able to get in and then someone says
well I had antivirus
yeah but they remote it in to the
computer and guess what they turned off
the dang antivirus what they're gonna do
it's amazing how many people still think
that antivirus protects them from
everything it doesn't there is no
disclaimer that says it will protect you
from allowing somebody else access to
your network and that's exactly what
you're doing if you turn on things like
RDP regardless of whether you use
obscure ports or not
and now we're seeing so so to just kind
of circle back and say okay looking at
the story what we're seeing SonicWALL
themselves the firewall company have
noted that non-standard port attacks are
on the rise right
so that means port scans are happening
and if you're not protecting yourself
with lft or some other type of login
failure denial firewall then you are
susceptible to those attacks because the
ports are going to be open because
that's guarantee the services right
totally right yeah yeah no it's simple
yet so complex yes a semi autonomous
and word has it that it could be used to
help build a base on Mars a six foot two
inch semi autonomous humanoid robot
Valkyrie was designed with the ultimate
goal by NASA to help humans colonize
Mars the 300 pound robot has been
prepped with a number of space-based
trials by nasa's space Robotics
Challenge the robot can use human tools
and map its own path safely it can
navigate well across rocky terrain
thanks to its hydraulic power and at
first sight the Valkyrie is an Iron Man
look-alike with a glowing circle in its
chest marking the robots status inside
the infrared transparent faceplate
you'll find a whirring lidar sensor that
constantly scans the surroundings for
objects and obstacles the robot has dual
brains to Intel Core i7 computers
which translate the censors input
although Valkyrie is tested with a power
cord in place it can read on a battery
pack lasting an hour there will be a
host of cameras and sensors around
Valkyrie a multi sensor LS camera on its
head which combines laser 3d stereo and
video as well as an extra hazard camera
looking ahead and behind from the torso
38 sensors on each three fingered hand
will maintain dexterity and control so
basically if you've ever watched the
movie the Martian Valkyrie will pretty
much recreate its plot - the part about
growing potatoes it's an interesting
story but really Iron Man it's actually
kind of cool-looking
it is cool I'm surprised though that
it's i7 yeah but just because it's been
in development for a little bit that's
my guess well I mean you don't need i9
for what it does but no but what what my
point is and Ameri droid is saying well
that's gonna kill the battery life
because yeah you've got the hyper
threading and it uses a lot of power
right that's why an i3 notebook will and
an i-5 will power will last a lot longer
on battery than an i7 correct right
because the i7 has just bleedin the the
battery drive but my thought is it's
surprising that they're creating an
autonomous robot that is not utilizing
some of the more modern AI technology
like I'm talking like neural technology
well it's still new right so that's just
another thing that can go wrong do you
think that as developers like all of
these new nano processors have come out
and they're like do i sevens it's got a
motherboard about this big and two
honkin heat sinks well I want to see
what they do with that stuff then like
if this is just using AI sevens imagine
what they can do with that technology
yeah but if they're building it for CPU
instead of NPU
and it's the wrong architecture right
right I'm just surprised that there
wasn't any reference to solar panels
like the fact that can only run battery
for an hour like if you're gonna go to
Mars put a solar panel it's not like the
name last half there know where it's
gonna have a charging station guys
that's true
farther from the Sun and dust and stuff
right yeah so it's like if you have like
a central hub they can go to yeah and
like do their thing that's what I wonder
a is having a massive hub where they
charge so like what it's done the way it
works it goes back exactly by doing it
that way by doing it that way they can
have a much larger base for the
batteries for the for the charging
station and it can be lighter weight it
can be more mobile and more able
particularly inches wide what was the
the robot it said something about like
six feet and then three inches I thought
no what use is that Jeff it just falls
over it's an exciting time we live in
but like they can just out on the moon
and stuff too so Space Station there you
go yeah you know we got to start
somewhere right yeah baby steps to Mars
Wally get us alright ESET researchers
discovered a new Android ransomware
family that attempts to spread to
victims contacts and deploy some unusual
tricks after two years of decline in
android ransomware a new family has
emerged we've seen the ransomware
detected by ESET mobile security as
Android file code distributed via
various online forms using victims
contact lists it spreads further via SMS
with malicious links do to narrow
targeting and flaws in both execution of
the campaign and implementation of its
encryption the impact of this new
ransomware is limited however if the
developers fix the flaws and the
operators start targeting broader groups
of users the Android file code
ransomware could become a serious threat
Android file code has been active since
at least July 12 2019
within the campaign ESET discovered
Android file code has been distributed
via malicious posts on reddit and the
xda-developers forum a forum for Android
developers the malicious activity was
reported to xda-developers and reddit
the posts on the XDA Developers forum
were removed swiftly the malicious
reddit profile remained online Android
file code spreads further via SMS with
malicious links which are sent to all
contacts in the victims contact list
asked after the ransomware sends out a
batch of malicious sms's and encrypts
most user files on the device and
requests a ransom due to flawed
encryption it is possible to decrypt the
the affected files without any
assistance from the attacker in one link
that was shared on reddit the attackers
used the URL shortener bit ly this bit
ly URL was created on June 11th 2019
once potential victims receive an SMS
message with the link to the malicious
application they need to install it
manually after the app is launched it
displays whatever is promised in the
post distributing it most often it's a
sex simulator online game however its
main purposes are command and control
communication spreading malicious
messages and implementing the encryption
decryption mechanism why SMS well and
this is what I'm thinking immediately is
it just goes to show that you cannot
trust that just because it's coming from
my friend that it can be trusted like if
you suddenly got an SMS like if I got
one from you and it said hey Robi
clicked this link and it was
legitimately from your phone number
because it's your phone that's infected
it it automatically creates a level of
trust for me I don't ever trust a link
that comes in through tech not even if
I'm talking but note comes from your
phone number but more than just someone
you know it's from your phone number a
link through a text I always respond
back going is this legit did you set
yeah yeah what does it do hey Jeff yeah
what's with this sex game you sent me
but yeah like I mean I guess that makes
sense I mean by a semester seems a
little bit more personal sure but rather
than like the prince of persia wants
a million dollars really but but but
also there's this fact that like I don't
give my cell phone number to anyone I
don't you you may have though but some
of some of my maybe you need to join the
close circle Jeff but so if I got her
down in that circle no but think you've
never had a need to contact me on my
smartphone so because we're like we're
so connected on like discord and
everything else so but if that was not
the case if it was somebody so for
someone like me who has so few people
that I'm in communication with on my
smartphone yeah right what if it came
from one of them so like what's fair I
don't it's not like a bulk mail it's
like that's from one of the ten people
who have my smartphone number and it's
their number and it shows on my phone as
from them yeah so all of a sudden I I
have that level of trust so we really
have to be careful it's smarter and this
could lead to new types of phishing
scams
I mean ransomware is one thing so this
is something that you have to install
but what if it was a link to a website
that was a phishing scam I've seen them
where it's where it's an Instagram this
is Instagram is so stupid with their way
that they've created their service
because you have to log in in order to
see the photos yes
so because of that that's stupid yeah
that a phishing scam could easily trick
me into thinking I'm opening Instagram
and I need to login in order to access
the photo that's being sent to me and
then at the same time it stills your
login information exactly that's how
phishing scams work so that's something
that didn't need to be installed it's
something that would have just shown up
on my SMS messages from somebody that I
probs do you see that where it's like oh
you got a reset your password in your
bank account sure yeah that seems like
that's something a little harder to fall
for my Instagram example is very easy
for someone to fall for Oh totally so
you know Marla's story no downloading
simulated sex games oh just stay away
from them folks yeah
just stay away all right linus torvalds
the creator of linux is killing off
support for legacy disk drive tech say
goodbye to your save button floppy disks
appeared in the 1970s first is giant
8-inch disks before slimming down to the
five and a quarter inch variety seen
attached to many pcs and home computers
of the 1980s the 1980s also marked the
beginning of the end of the traditional
floppy with the considerably stiffer
three-and-a-half inch version from Sony
which dumped the flexible sleeve
protecting the magnetic magnetic media
was something much more rigid with a
metal covering that could be slid aside
when inserted into the disc into the
drives mechanism the 1998 imax iMac
courageously did not feature a floppy
drive and within the decade the vast
majority of PC makers had followed suit
as CD DVD and USB storage became more
prevalent much of the world has known
the floppy was dead for some time but
Torvalds has made it official with a
Linux kernel merge marking the floppy
driver as orphaned the issue is that
there were plenty of USB drives out
there actual PC hardware is becoming a
thing of the past
thanks to motherboard makers ditching
the relevant connectors and because very
few people use floppy floppy disks
anymore
Torvalds observed that actual working
physical floppy Hardware is getting hard
to find and consider the driver dead
with a few faint use cases still present
in emulated environments but if you
really need to read those old discs USB
is going to be the way forward naturally
just being orphaned doesn't mean that
the driver is actually disappearing
immediately but it does mean that unless
some magic or magnetic media meddler
steps up to maintain it the odds are
we'll be depreciated and eventually
removed make sense I'm like at this
point so I got my laptop and it has no
optical drive yeah and so it's the same
things changed yeah but it's the same
kind of scenario where so I actually
went out and for 20 bucks I bought a USB
optical drive
yeah there's no need for an SAT a
optical driver anymore because it's USB
right it's all Universal Serial bus well
same thing with a floppy disk if you
still use them it's gonna be an external
USB and you're thinking back to the old
ThinkPad days like years ago like in the
90s like where the the flash drive
not the flash drive pardon me the the
floppy drive became an external unit
that plugged into USB yes and that was
an upgrade component that you could buy
to make your laptop backward compatible
to those early discs I still have a
floppy of Commander Keen yeah I have
Star Trek shareware discs oh nice
which is kind of neat I use them as
coasters and stuff like that was kind of
fun yeah I was cleaning a lot of old
disks yeah and one of my kids saw it he
goes hey that looks like the save button
let me tell you why I explain it down
because I stored one point four four
megabytes dad what's a megabyte well I
just turned 25 and the thing is that
like back in high school when I was in
grade 9 yeah our computers still have
floppy disks got like in the sense that
I was like yeah I could put it in and
take it on stammering and literally are
going through high school we have until
grade 10 11 all like the grade nines
coming in and stuff what what is this
for like yeah weird rectangle like my CD
doesn't fit in it what is a forum like
woman and the early USB flash drives
were what eight gigs so I think I had a
to a two gig but when you can put that
into the perspective of one point four
four megabytes or audacity was two point
eight eight so two point eight eight
megabytes it's like a photo and a Tutera
by are two gigabyte is two thousand
essentially two hundred two thousand
forty eight yeah yeah 2048 somebody's
Windows 3.1 disc two yes three thought
the Windows XP installable even the cds
before DVDs right
CD 1 CD 2 CD 3
oh yeah you don't even know dude I know
an operating system from 1.44 mega
floppies it's it's and then you got to
disc 16 and it was corrupt yeah and you
had to order disc 16 and make sure that
the power didn't go out to the computer
cuz you didn't want to have to start
over
it was for the dare I I do remember it's
the end stuff like that I think our
first computer had the five and a
quarter oh yeah over the eight inch well
my first computer had an audio cassette
deck that really toured the data
magnetically awesome so you used just
normal cassettes which are like a
reel-to-reel tape memory lane yeah all
right oh this is actually me I've got to
take a look at the cryptocurrency report
let's see what we got here
okay so an coin kakko this week Bitcoin
is up ten thousand thirty seven dollars
and ten cents u.s. is the current value
gaining two hundred thirty two dollars
this week Facebook Libre is still not
trading litecoin is at ninety eight
dollars and seventy nine cents US
gaining three dollars and ninety three
cents this week aetherium is at 215 48
losing just a little bit Manero is
staying fairly static at eighty dollars
and four cents u.s. torque is actually
starting to see some gains we're at 110
thousandths of a cent that's the highest
I've ever seen it Wow
for a single torque coin so these being
the the very very small coins so you can
tell like yeah yeah that's right
turtle coin is still slow and steady at
point eight four ten thousandth of a
cent losing zero for the bit 0 4 yeah I
just keep waiting dude keep coming we're
gonna be on Mars before turtle coin goes
to the moon don't forget if you are
going to play around with cryptocurrency
make sure you only do as much as you can
afford to lose the cryptocurrency market
never closes and is always volatile it
so that's it for the cryptocurrency
report Jeff excellent big thanks to Roy
W Nash in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category 5 TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category 5 TV newsroom I'm
Jeff Weston Fillion for Shasha Rickman
cha-cha-cha
Sascha Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson
and I'm still Henry Bailey Brown good I
hope so
God nobody's change identities I know
it's pretty good keeps a consistent just
Shasha that's a Sean Connery Shusher and
that sash is back next week is your not
yes yes Asha we'll be back next week and
we have to take a very quick break folks
stick around
welcome back this is category five
technology TV we are just about out of
time but almost almost oh no we got
enough to see how your week was yeah did
you guys you guys get anything good on
crime day which was actually two days I
bought an echo device you did yeah oh
very nice very nice and that's arrived
and you've been playing with it it's
arriving with it it was the shopping
list edition that really sold us yes so
now we are never without I don't know
the shopping list because that's really
within a week have gotten into the habit
of oh I have to do that you know say the
antastic to the shopping list yeah so
the kids are trained that if they use
the up the ketchup hey echo add ketchup
to the shopping list mom and dad are at
the store oh we need ketchup
that's right sneaky beautify I'm
starting to play with some of the skills
now I'm playing different game nice oh
yeah like if you add the fart skill the
kids love that but no I've not added the
fart you have - I have not out of the
first skill but we've added a forget
which company is from but a
multi-language
tutor for our school so cool French kind
of weird me but also we added jeopardy
and the would you rather no way playing
with the kids it's like I love it
kids love it because I mean my kids are
young so they like the would you rather
game that's neat and that gets them away
from video games it's still digital but
it's like it's more like a we're sitting
there at the kitchen table and it isn't
that fun you know answering things we
get to know a little more about each
other you know what I like about my echo
dot what is that it has auxilary output
it's like a headphone jack so I actually
have my echo dot plugged into a good set
of speakers okay so one when I play
music it sounds really good though I'm
impressed with the quality of the actual
device there's one thing about it that's
driving me nuts what is it and I don't
know if it's just like the frequency
that my voice comes across
I have to like blood-curdling scream at
the echo you just have to raise you just
have to raise the Toni Toni of your
voice what time is it
it's but it's not like I could be three
feet from the thing giving the key word
yeah and it's not recognizing me and
that my daughter walks up and goes yeah
that's like it's just like it favors
little little girls ginger that's the
problem we just lost all the sales to
all of the redheads out there Jeff well
done well done
my primed a deal yes oh I had a dead
tree in the backyard not a big one not a
big one
yeah it was there and if and if it was
bigger I would have had to hire an
arborist to come out but an arborist is
like $250 for the first hour and and so
I got on to prime day and it was
actually quite interesting because I had
added this thing to my cart previously
but when prime day hit I got an email
that said that thing that's in your cart
is now 20% off guys yes and that was a
nine foot long extension pole with a
chainsaw on the end of it so it's great
for zombie apocalypses girl for dead
trees in the back so this was just
little tree so it was a lot safer for me
rather than getting up on the ladder
with a proper saw or something it was a
lot safer to stand on the ground with a
nine foot long pole cut off all the
branches and then take down the the base
of the tree it was safe it was easy and
it cost me about about a third of the
price of having an arborist come in for
one hour and now I can use it over and
over and over again
so anytime you know for pruning or
whatever it's extension so it goes up to
nine feet but it goes as short as like I
don't know like maybe five feeders
there's an electric or gas it's electric
so you just run an extension cord it
needs oil but it's like three dollars
for a big thing of oil at the hardware
store don't buy the oil off of Amazon
it's like $25 on Amazon it's $3.00 at
the hardware store so but this thing was
great man so if I took it down it was
safe I there was very
little damage I took a little bit off of
my fence but I'll be able to fix it no
problem and that was just like I had to
decide okay which is the safest way to
make it fall and well it was great
that's awesome too like if somebody
spying on you with a drone just be like
this is coming from the pilot wow dude
bad suggestions
yeah it's been so wonderful having you
here great having you to here as was
said just before the break Sasha
aka sasha is going to be here she's
gonna be here next week Henry's here
you're off the whole like everybody's
doing the summer thing so it's gonna be
an amazing show Henry is going to be
teaching us how to fly to the moon so
yeah true story true story yeah take
your take your i7 robots with you just
take one turtle coin to the moon with
you we'll all right so have a great week
everybody don't forget we are on Twitter
at category 5 TV me personally I am on
Twitter at Robbie Ferguson and I follow
back we're on YouTube as category 5 TV
and you'll find us also a Linux tech
show calm don't forget to subscribe to
both of those channels on YouTube we're
on Plex and Cody and get the code at
github.com slash cat 5 TV and of course
our main website ties everything
together including our subscription
links for RSS feeds and everything else
at category-five dot TV
have a fantastic week everybody see ya
see ya
