covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux - according to a semi annual
ranking announced by the US European top
500 project on Monday Japan's latest
supercomputer fuga ku is the world's
fastest for computing speed this is the
first time that a Japanese supercomputer
has taken the top position in nine years
when the Kay computer vu geckos predict
predecessor took first place at this
time in 2011 jointly developed by Japan
state-backed RIKEN Center for
computational science and Fujitsu who
gaku is the first-ever ARM based system
to become the world's fastest
supercomputer it scored a
high-performance Linpack HPL score of
415 point 5 petaflop which makes it 2.8
times faster than IBM summits 148 point
6 petaflop
that is now in second place in the top
500 supercomputers Ann Keynes who gaku
is powered by Fujitsu is 48 core ARM
based a 64 FX system on chip and
consists of nearly seven point three
million CPU cores in single precision
operations it reaches peak performance
of over 1,000 petaflop which pushes our
vernacular into the next tier at one
exaflop the chips run at 2.0 gigahertz
with a boost to 2.2 gigahertz and carry
32 gigabytes of second generation high
bandwidth memory each this ARM based
supercomputer also secured the number1
position in other rankings that test
computers on different parameters
including graph 500 HP l ai and high
performance conjugate gradient this is
the first time that a supercomputer has
simultaneously topped the rankings in
the above four categories according to
Fujitsu currently installed at the right
concentr for computational science in
Kobe Japan few gaku is will also carry
out a wide range of applications that
will address high priority social and
scientific issues while the
supercomputer is expected to start
full-time operation in April next year
they are already using it in the fight
against Koba 19
in recent years countries like the US
and China have dominated the race to
develop powerful machines this time to
China dominated the top 500 list with
226 supercomputers while the US took
second place with 114 systems followed
by Japan with 30 France with 18 and
Germany with 16 systems
[Music]
