welcome to today's ramen break
hyejeong gone done it again guys working
too hard
Oh Robin break a ramen break a kimchi
break me how everybody good yeah we have
here I hear Seoul boo I'm gonna get
myself connected here so I can see who's
here it is the fifth of May 2020 but it
is great to see you guys
Ron how are you I'm doing great
I was outside for a little while
actually a beautiful day over here in
western mass now when was that photo
taken that's behind you bright light
coming through a window so that is what
it is a beautiful sunny day good man I I
think it's a nice day here in Bear too
although I've been kind of like trapped
inside all day
I got a shipping notification today that
the HDMI extenders that are repeaters
that I had ordered them we're not going
to be here until a week or two away are
gonna be here today so that's a little I
might actually be able to use the studio
this week is taking five days longer to
deliver you got the opposite note
yeah but only ever for four more days
extra days so if you everybody but Mike
one of the circuit will be good
okay talks about employer and it would
do it hahaha yeah you can yeah I don't I
don't use anybody right now
oh do you know of anyone that does
one-off prints of circuit PCBs gel-v PCB
here in the states does it hmm yeah
that's when I've heard of into it yet
PCB way what are they called PCB
printing and 3d printing are two things
that I'm really keen to to learn and
actually start doing but I don't have
the equipment to do it so I like that
there are companies there's companies
that you can hire that you know like
that that you just send them the
schematic and they'll print it for you
yeah things the difference the
difference between them is to find one
that also will solder the components to
the board for you if if you don't want
to have to do that yourself unless the I
Peter you may want to just do that
that's what Ron was Sam yeah I don't
know them cool man but it what are you
what are you planning to print I do a
job Barracuda I want you okay a bit more
than a today
well hello rosemary oh who is it
it's Marika usually hi Marika usually
when someone comes in the room and
starts talking real loud it's it's
rosemary yes three interesting news from
last week
oh yes yes yes she bought one uh I don't
if you've heard of the racehorse
teabiscuit what is it the racehorse the
racehorse Judith ariados
the Seabiscuit yeah yes and then
Seabiscuit raced War Admiral in the big
race but she bought a filly that is the
descendant of Seabiscuit and War Admiral
what Wow
no way Oh congratulations thank you
do you ride I do she's still too young
yeah yeah awesome congratulation that's
awesome Sify at that time like a coffee
shops consider being a small party to
another they were they were you dig you
dealers were using metal printers where
there the printer then metal parts I I
think it's a great idea for like the
Mars mission and stuff like that to use
it to be able to print tools and Oh what
do you got there
this is something this is the biggest
thing I have 3d printed so far it is the
top for a master beaut
and what are you printing are you
printing that vertical or how did you
have to print that are you gonna you
would have to be totally sure then yeah
we do have a printer that'll do a 12
inch by 12 inch by 14 inch cube so you
could actually make a helmet out of it
could you make me a Mandalorian costume
for this Halloween and what's okay and
at $60 an hour one layer at a time
oh boy so this takes about 10 hours to
press this particular piece it looks
like a really like I mean we're looking
at it on a webcam or something but there
on your phone but it looks like it's a
pretty smooth print a well the surface
is what was on the build plate okay yeah
the sides are layered I don't know
thinking you just a quick sand and it's
not not a quick sand but you can do
surface treatment but it's or you can
just live love to live it it's them
we're gonna call it the modern woodgrain
the wood grain of 2020s mechanical
properties were where it's stronger in
one direction and in another
we could also say if you count the
layers and you figure it takes
minutes per layer we can actually
determine the age of that print right
yeah oh yeah it's kind of cool because
like these walls are six millimeters
thick but they're primarily Hollow
there's infill but really so yeah like a
honeycomb but it's actually rectilinear
I find rectilinear is easier to print
quickly and it's just a supportive
easier on the printer so rectilinear is
where one layer it's doing 45 degrees in
one direction and the other layer it
does forty fed Riis in the other
direction and they just crank each other
yeah nice
well I crashed out of zoom I don't know
what happened but it just suddenly said
oh yeah I see that clone is going away
soon I'm sure that's what it did that's
what it did to me just the other day
yeah I mean it just crashed right out of
it and it wouldn't rejoin the meeting I
had to create a head to completely exit
and then rejoin no idea good good to see
y'all oh I've got good luck now ski
we've got run we got Peter though and we
got vp9 and his twin brother bp9 so bow
is it bring your daughter to work day
today no she works here
see he works in the shipping department
and she also just taking over purchasing
during the shutdown oh very nice very
nice
speaking of pcbs we're also doing a
project where we're assembling some
circuit boards for a company that makes
surgical robots
so that's thinking a new story there's a
well as long as it's voluntary
I mean you don't want a surgical robot
just showing up at your door and pushing
you back into the house all I was seeing
I was seen some news this week about the
the new touch device have you guys seen
that the thing that you attach to your
shoulder and then it has strings a
string for each finger and your wrist
did you guys see that no we're gonna be
talking about it tomorrow on the show
it's a it's a touch a new way of doing
touching virtual reality so when you
touch an object you actually feel it so
like a wall or like product or something
but I was thinking wouldn't that be neat
if they could use that and and allow
like a medical professional to do
surgery with a surgical robot like if
they kind of adapt up the technologies
as long as you get good feedback on the
resistance of the object that you're
touching yeah I don't think that it's
one thing to just did a bleep if you're
touching something but if you tap
something hard versus just tapping it
softly yeah what's neat about that I
mean there's not the there's not enough
there's not enough to it like it's very
it's like six strings right so when you
touch something so if there's a wall I
could feel that wall in that when I
touch here I feel the resistance so I
can feel like that but I couldn't like
it's not tactile like I couldn't hold a
pair of scissors or something like that
in in VR but wouldn't that be neat I
mean you think about the evolution of
how things how quickly things move could
result in something like that so what is
this what's the board that you guys are
working on Bo well all we know is that
it's a surgical robot that's yeah that
it's a control system it has nice or no
Ethernet on it and it has power
connectors and MOSFETs and
no no it's a discreet device mm-hmm
but somebody approached us and said hey
we need to have some of these assembled
can you do that and Ron yeah we've got
all the equipment to do that so you guys
have droid in your name yeah yeah
it does it does it need to operate in a
in a sterile environment like in your in
the o'er so does it need to be
sterilizable I'm not sure if this part
actually isn't the robot part of it or
in the control part of it okay either
case it's both in the operating rooms
though so I'm sure they'll both go
through a rigorous sterilization process
yeah just be careful about little
corners and crooks and any I mean nooks
and crannies to make sure that you can
get into those easily to clean ya up
we'll just think they gave us a whole
list of requirements very nice that's
really a attack and it controlled and
there are important things the surgeons
operating like some kind of control
levers or something and then the arms
are mirroring that probably in a so a
small alert a large motion on this end
makes a very small motion on the other
end where the robot is operating hmm I'm
picturing it says sat on the side and
it's got one of those big scoops yeah it
may will do what me how far away is the
surgeon from the actual device the
country you're in the same room I know
they've used surgical robots in
Antarctica and other places where
surgeons needed to operate on somebody
but they didn't have a surgeon on-site
so one of those telesurgery units or if
it's just one like for brain surgeons
where they're needing to make that make
their motions very controlled you'd
think one of the requirements would be
you know rock-solid Internet yeah using
DSL
tactical would have rock-solid internet
you know I just can't visualize that if
it's a life-and-death situation you work
with what you've got
well sure wonder - it is not a lot of
data right it's like positional data so
what comes back there Roby or there's
somebody on the radio that's that's
explaining to the left
no don't stab their brain surgery on
your leg you guys think backs
have you ever seen quacks that is
exactly what that show is and I don't
want to I don't want to minimize you
know by joking about it the seriousness
of what they're doing I mean it is this
is some pretty heavy-duty stuff that
they're doing with this telesurgery
yeah yeah right that's so kudos to you
both for helping out with that term help
me I'm very different it's a great
project yeah I'd love to learn more I
think these are just prototypes so these
aren't actually going in the finished
units
well still no you're doing your bit to
help them out to - to use it yeah not
too long ago you saw a video you know
we're gonna jump on you for that
code maintenance at NASA had that talk
about it is a few years ago one of the
Voyager space probes he has a good time
over at that time had an appetizer
15,000 days and it still oh yeah imagine
the latency the sending up command and
they have to wait until the next day or
the next two days can you imagine can
you imagine writing a computer program
that has to control this hard way and
the computer program can not fail now
you know it's one thing your master and
it's one thing if you've got a young if
you've got a program that runs it at
work or whatever on on the mainframe or
whatever it crashes call supporting by
Alena do what you got to do to fix it
but that's not gonna be an option when
you're bazillion miles out in space
you know what BP mind you don't see you
don't see a whole lot of robots powered
by Microsoft Windows now the thing is I
wanted to I'm sorry with your so because
I want to point out that the pipe time
and while nowhere near as critical has a
similar issue right because what you
have to do is implement things called
watchdog timers so that if the thing
gets in a loop or gets caught up or get
messed up somehow it's watched on time I
will just reset it to a known state and
start again so and I I suspect Sabu if
you can correct me if I'm wrong but I
suspect they use a similar technique on
that Voyager program - right well in
addition to that they have they have two
completely independent systems
that or mirroring each other and never
one of them have failed one or two times
and it recorded because they have a
function it's a hardware function that
if the unit stops responding then it
cuts the power boots it back up they can
say that that's the function of a
watchdog timer they're like like having
the the user manual and one function it
has it if you and then these are
functions of time that you have can
enable enable in the hardware that it
will ping ping something and if it
doesn't get a response in a configurable
time then it will hard reset the air
finish right now the infinite that
knowing thing no idea think roughly
they'll get into the Bertrand which
somehow and I thought really funny fix
absolute of minions are there bolder and
because what they as you might be
DiMaggio because ISIL two batches were
coming to lack of usual is by the judo
boo I mean some guy coming who come to
the waiter fishery said all that
something active every singing to each
other I know they're better pool there's
a red light or something cold well were
straight after that fall apart over good
psyche and the other one with the other
one I remember was when I was working
up meaning and like you can be with
the computer to take data from a problem
a plate in London actually we had to go
there and when we went there with all
these police cars going up there were
with promoted Hill and goes all these
police cars up there and we couldn't
work out why they've got a new car to
dig it up the plate
picking up his toys cold anyway when we
came back we discovered it was boy Joey
Joey looking for drugs and get back the
same word because by obstacles and phone
number in the wrong number eight you to
keeping these woman number and I like to
talk to the woman and apologize very
much time sorry we made a mistake we
were going boys ready boys in the pair
who you know because he run the wrong
number the girl out ticket was vogue
then 6 etcetera seven or something yeah
I hate it when that happens
new story in Nova in the far north and
the documentary about knew each other
defense forces and the state state of
the forces and they am an interview demo
p.m. one of the guys who are money at
the military post he was asked to do if
the Russians see if it could come across
the border in order to take air at the
northern Norway and he said that the
current plans is phone the process and
then put the catalog was not per second
they have nothing well so boot once
again so you just you just bring in the
disaster scenario don't you
you bet you're so good at that right the
Russians are coming they're gonna win
made no way that's pretty scary
that's pretty scary but again the Norway
is one of the two countries that
diversion actually pulled out of they
came to help us in their Second World
War as always and then they helped us
get the society together and then it
fill up so they don't think I didn't
know why I think that I'm a fool too
quickly you know why do you suppose the
German well gents I got a big couple
days ahead got to be ready for
tomorrow's show
hope you guys are able to make it
tomorrow night time to employs me
totally know I know dude and I guess I
was mentioned just before you arrived
vp9
the HDMI repeaters are meant to actually
arrive today oh boy I might actually be
able to if I can get enough time oh I
wish I could just have a week off of
work like just we should do that thing
what you should do is get yourself set
up in the producers room hook up the
cameras with the HDMI couplers and put
the camera in the studio just pointed to
the wall so that's the show just film
myself putting connecting everything and
that's that's it yes this HDMI cable
goes here this one goes there
yep I also oh one of the things and then
the brake is poppin and the whole thing
just shuts down
oh no not gonna
stop that the tough thing if we ever did
trip a breaker is that I'm only there
after hours yeah like they they closed
the office and lock up the mall so
there's nobody there to to flip the
breaker back and until the next day it's
just so funny you call it the mole I
just keep thinking of a shopping mall
when you say but I'm sure that's not
what it what the setup is no I don't
know what you would call it then it's
it's 120,000 square feet of offices an
office complex is what I yeah yeah but
that that makes me think of like a
skyrise or something that has hmm you
know what I mean like you walk in and
you've got an elevator that takes you to
floor 3 to get to where you're going no
this is like this is a massive problem
all but all offices instead of retail
well that's the key right I mean that's
the key point that it's all officers
that's what makes me think of this
complex doesn't have to be for the same
company to still be enough it's an
office MA just to say we've got a
hundred and twenty thousand square feet
at our new studio how's that wow that's
impressive just mentioned that only 490
of that is mine right
Microsoft does that all the times not a
big office as a friend of mine worked in
the kitchen at a restaurant in that
trondheim the name of the the office so
he heard a lot of comments from maybe
you know the office yeah yeah it was
long before the TV series but there
but he had there he overheard often
people who were coming in and having
determined and then the phone rang and
then they said that they were in the
office
clearly yeah
well I've gotta go check on dinner
because I literally an hour ago put the
slow cooker on with a nice chuck roast
with a bunch of veggies in there so yeah
that's gonna be my dinner tonight and
probably for the next three or four days
just because you know I went to the
grocery store God did a vegetable you
know fresh veggie run and picked up a
nice pot roast at the same time and
threw that in a slow cooker it should be
should be yummy so I'm looking forward
to that I'm craving a pot roast okay I'm
on my way
I'll see you come pony up all right see
you guys great afternoon I'll see you
tomorrow for coffee break and then don't
forget tomorrow's the show as well it
easy they'll be good you'll be fine
Robbie don't worry you'll be fine it's
gonna be great it's gonna be fine
have a good night bye-bye goodbye
