now time for us to give back to you just
a little bit now I have been in love
with Kingston's data traveler mm yes
this thing is awesome because you've
seen it on the show cat 5 TV /dt mm I
don't need to really give you a review
but I will give you a synopsis because
we have shown this on the show it is an
encrypted flash drive that has a
touchpad in it so you don't have to use
any software in order to decrypt your
device you punch in your password and
now it's ready you plug it into anything
including like a Smart TV or some other
device where you can't install
decryption software and it will work and
it's encrypted so if someone doesn't
know the password they can't access the
files if they try to guess your password
if they do it 10 times it's gonna wipe
itself it base it destroys the key so it
will no longer be decrypted all right
data is just garbage
don't lose your pass so don't lose your
password but that that is like a great
security feature so I've got one of
these to give away thank you for casting
your ballots more information is below
let's get right into it if you see your
name well good luck here we go I see
Richard blessing hey buddy William
Berlin we got Joel everybody's flying by
Neil Bob David Thomas
one pack a Michael Rutherford good luck
everybody stand
[Music]
Peter
here we go Chad Baker and things are
slowing down we're getting close
Jennings Harrell congratulations you've
just won yourself a brand-new shiny
Kingston DataTraveler DT mm make sure
you send us an email with your shipping
address and I'll get one of those in the
mail for you right away hey there's
still time to qualify because maybe I've
got more than one I'm just saying so
make sure you check below because you
may want to win one of those these
things are fantastic but that's all the
time that we have this week
congratulations to our winner Harold we
just need to know where to send it and
then it'll be it'll be honest way to you
and thank you to everybody for sending
in your ballots if you already sent in a
ballot don't worry you're still in the
next draw
but you still have time to send in a
ballot if you haven't done so already do
it
[Applause]
you
