welcome to category five technology TV
now welcome also to season 13 this is
our first episode of the season and this
week we're gonna be looking at a
generate a general adversarial network
that creates images of people that we
can use in our like as stock photos and
there's giving them away real people
they're not real people but a lot of
them look like real people I'm going to
show you all about that in just a couple
of moments time also I've got a device
that is going to allow us to monitor the
temperature in our server room our
computers and wherever we place this
thing and it's no bigger than a USB
flash drive I'm going to show you how
you can use that and generate some
output that you can use in your own
coding on Linux stick around
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
flex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tackett's here
cat5 TV slash TPM and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash ia IB welcome to the show
everybody welcome to season 13 lucky
number 13 yeah we're like do we skip it
like an elevator is it 12 B is it just
one point five no here we are at season
13 episode number 626 welcome to the
show and city yeah we've got a great
show planned for you before we get into
it though I want to remind you to
subscribe to us on youtube if you
haven't already done so make sure you
click that bell as well that's gonna
make sure that you get those
notifications you mentioned you got a
notification just before the show what
does it say well actually was Facebook
it was Facebook you got the YouTube one
and some of our viewers received that
YouTube ping because when you click that
Bell YouTube will inform you when we go
live and incidentally Facebook will do
the same so if you are a Facebook user
you can do that as well follow our
Facebook page which you'll find at cat5
dot TV slash Facebook it's a quick way
to get there or just search for us on
Facebook well we've looked into general
adversarial networks in the past
so this is where artificial intelligence
is being used to generate people
generally I mean generally it's being
used to create people people we're
talking like woman in the red dress from
the matrix
no jacket it took me a second I'm like
you know this isn't like that Jeff no
this is so we're talking the ability for
AI to take a subset of photographs
and say okay this is what a human looks
like right and then began a general
adversarial network the AI is then able
to create what looks like people humans
yeah but they're not real people they're
not real people so we've looked at them
in the past here's an interesting twist
for you okay generated dot photos is the
website now think about this for a
second
okay we've all heard of iStockphoto
we've all heard of their Getty Images
the parent company of iStock and if
we've ever done any design work if we've
ever built websites we tap into those
kinds of resources and Shutterstock and
all these different stock photos yeah
because we need I don't have photography
studio and 65 different models that I
can tap into to be able to get the right
photo for my product so I tap into those
and I pay through the teeth sometimes
shiny smiling yeah because one the model
is a human being a person and that human
being that person has to be compensated
so there are fees to pay the model and
and that's like a usually that's like a
blanket fee to the studio and so that's
incorporated into that pricing then
there's licensing fees so the
photographer the studio itself has
incorporated licensing fees into the
sale of the photo so that I'm now
allowed to use that photograph for my
project whether it's a product box shot
whether it's my website whether it's an
advertisement whether it's a billboard I
am able to purchase photos that have
people in them and use those hopefully
royalty-free but it cost me a fair bit
of money yes well okay back up just for
a second here and we I started this by
saying we've all heard about gang you
planted the seed so I feel like I know
the answer
so generated dot photos
is well the group there they're about 20
people in the company who they run a
photography studio right so they are
very experienced with photography and
model shots and and they understand the
whole issue with with model compensation
with model like being it like they have
to sign off on it the contracts it is
kind of like a contract so if a model
comes into my studio and I take their
picture if they have not authorized me
to now sell their photo as a stock photo
I'm not allowed to do that as the studio
so the studio has to compensate them in
order to do that so it's this vicious I
mean not vicious I mean everyone's got
to get paid everyone's got gotta have
you know you gotta have work rice is the
way the cookie crumbles that's why it
cost money is because it starts there
yeah and what comes from that I'm
thinking about I'm I spin right now is
the money right how much does it cost me
to get the licensing for these photos
there's another twist to this mm-hmm who
are the models and I don't mean the
people but I mean generally speaking the
models are the beautiful people right
right the most beautiful people the the
ones that media has said these are the
the ones that we want to take
photographs of mm-hmm
right this is this is what we end up
with as our stock photos right what if
general adversarial networks so AI which
is completely unbiased toward beauty
which doesn't judge or look at
photographs and say oh well I don't like
her hair again doesn't do that again
just says does it look like a human does
it not look like a human yep that's a
human let's do some stuff I would love
to like upload Picasso I don't know that
that would work out very well in the
case of a general adversarial network so
generated dot photos let's hop over
there so what I'm alluding to is that
this studio has said wait a second
what if we could do away with the
contract what if we could create human
models who are not human human stock
photography of people who do not exist
I like this of course see I get to
challenge that notion though no cuz it's
made up of the bits and pieces of the
people no not not in the traditional
sense you're thinking like I'm gonna
take Sasha's eyes and put them on Jeff's
face and take notes but I mean the
people are the base for what created
these images so I still think you can't
completely remove people from it but if
you could then take the generated images
and use those to generate more images
then you've got a point sure and it
stems from that so okay so understand
how Gann works so I know where you're
going with that
right but what Gann does is it takes
however many photos you can throw at it
and it uses those not to copy like
you're thinking okay but to learn this
is artificial intelligence so when I
look at a photograph I can see that's a
person yes
when I see a picture of a person with a
beard I can see that's a person with a
beard right I know that because I have
that intelligence now artificial
intelligence is now at the point with
general adversarial networks that can
look at those photos and say ah that's
what a beard looks like oh there's
another beard okay I understand now
let's create a new human based on the
knowledge that I've acquired from these
source images so I'm not taking the
source images and reusing them no I'm
learning from the source images what
things are how eyes look what does it
look like if if a person has you know
this type of ears and and why do they
have those types of years and and those
kinds of things right so it's actually
learning and then generating creating
something new based on the things that
it's learned very cool so you know some
people are like funny-looking yeah
you know like some people have like I
know that's too big for their face or
something right so what are you saying
what again ever why are you looking what
it can make a funny face person that's
amazing about it is that the Gann
doesn't judge okay I think about that
from a from a model standpoint so gone
are with Gann gone are the days of our
bias being toward this particular model
type I I use the phrase the beautiful
people but that that is what media has
created so the Gann it doesn't care
about that so the Gann makes beautiful
ordinary looking people
sure ordinary people like features
always proportionate because human
beings features aren't always but not
necessarily no no I want to know that
it's gonna create like like monster yeah
like I have a mole on my nose I do not
like it but with the Gann just never put
on mole on somebody no I think it would
it ok ok cuz it learns from that so to
look at some photos and say oh ok yeah
yeah so let's generate something someone
that has those features I wonder how
many of them got freckles exactly ok so
so all that to say this studio that
takes photos so their photography studio
and they're also programmers and
geniuses and they know you know they
they understand what what this
technology is capable of their studio
took twenty nine thousand photos Wow
over the course of the last two years
now what's interesting about that think
about this for a second it's a
controlled environment so the lighting
is always the same the backdrop is the
same or similar the cameras are probably
the same camera so so there's a very
controlled set of twenty nine thousand
images of models of people humans for
the Gann to learn from then we feed that
in
how many images did they come up with
100,000 faces all generated by AI so
let's scroll through generated dot
photos and every person that you see
here doesn't exist these people are not
real really and not only that so here's
some examples of the kind of art that
you can create so if you need to create
like billboards and ads for your school
and things like that you're able to use
these photos the photos I say photos but
they're not their images they're images
of people there are people Canadian I'm
asking a question I feel like I know the
answer to they could age see I see
children on the screen they could take
that image likely and with just like
some sort of age enhancement they could
age that image right through day or the
GAM yes the the general adversarial
network the AI can say okay these are
the features and let's work with those
yeah so here we've got a subset of a
hundred thousand images I'm just gonna
browse that briefly on Google Drive so
you can see what we're actually the is
what they're providing their images are
on Google Drive
yeah so you just access right from their
website you can just go right on there
load it up using so here we go let's
let's change this to thumbnail view and
these are available for you absolutely
free so as long as you're now there is a
caveat right now these are licensed for
non-commercial use so if you do if
you're using them for school if you're
using them for your own personal website
your blog those kinds of things
currently it's licensed for personal use
only so do keep that in mind maybe
message to them if you want to use their
images for for anything that's
commercial right
but it's a proof-of-concept that's
showing that this is going to be a
possibility just a quick scroll here no
I'm interested in that second row yeah
one picture they have a headdress or
something
so does that the AI generate the AI
generated a headdress or as well yeah
that's wild
yeah so not only people who can generate
accessories sure yeah like this this
lady here I'll call her lady rings she
has your rings yeah and and you see that
they don't all come out looking like now
that's it's interesting how the gang
will sometimes generate something that's
there's something a little off sometimes
you see something that's a little off
and I love that those have been included
as well yes but what they've done like
here's one I don't know what's happened
to his head there right like sometimes
he's there there's something there he's
got like the Sylvester Stallone I that's
fine this answers my question so but
somebody in Photoshop or GIMP could fix
the the error ref you will on the head
but for some reason the AI said okay
that's a feature of some people's head
so so it's learning and it's important
to realize that this technology is new
that's not a real person
this technology is something that is
growing and evolving and learning so as
it grows as it learns these photos are
going to become more and more realistic
right to the point where the the group
from generated dot photos is saying like
hey this could be used in multimedia
imagine if this technology we've talked
about using an in video games like we
all would love to have an avatar that
looks like us or generate an abacus to
Orval yeah but I'm saying like imagine
if you could take the began and have it
regenerate you in a game digitally right
without some human having to do that
right but what if this is what the team
has said what if you could actually take
this technology
and they could create TV shows say
Netflix for example where a couple of
the characters within the TV show are
Gann generated so as you're watching it
it ties into your library and creates so
there's a flipside of this yes it can
create fake humans humans that are not
actually real people but began can also
take a real human so a photo of my face
and put it on a dummy model in the TV
show right so it can create what looks
like a real person so it could look like
Jeff it could look like Sasha or it
could look like Ravi and so now I could
be sitting down in in front of my TV we
could be watching a movie with my kids
and all of a sudden in walks me on the
set on the movie because they could
create movies where some of the
characters are no they're basically like
blanks right and then it taps into my
own resources my own I could load my own
gaen images into the system and it will
place me within that multimedia within
that content that image okay I want to
see the thumbnails this is just the
first key this one with the little girl
and it looks like yeah mom so you see
what's happened over here with the
Klingon okay so that's what I was gonna
say it looks like she's hanging out with
something out of Star Trek right makes
me go could we use Gann to start
producing sci-fi new types of aliens oh
my gosh how cool would that be or could
they use this for pets sure to generate
new animal games a person beside the
daughter is a glitch kind of like a
human pug combo kind of the see that you
can tell the began was not sure what to
do with this fact that it was creating
two humans right on the same canvas but
I mean the fact 29,000 images to work
with and you know you're getting a
hundred thousand images like that's
impressive yeah so you're gonna have
bugs but so you clear those out of the
system and go okay fine yeah now
interestingly enough looking through
these photos I will
say I think Sasha was onto something
what's that with the fact that these are
all generally nice-looking people mm-hmm
idols I don't think I saw anywhere in
there somebody who was quite largely
obese I didn't see anybody with like
sure-fire burn marks on the face you can
say that you can also say you know I'm
not seeing any Asians maybe a couple
that have some Asian name everybody
seems very proportioned is there it
doesn't right to be like so we can say
those things yeah so I wonder that if
the Gann then knows like if your face is
this big your ears are likely this big
and sure so they'll create ears for you
then actually fit your face because they
didn't get pictures of people with
ridiculously big ears right sure play
off of a artists project that I remember
seeing about two years ago where a
photographer took want to say was the
least a hundred images of every
nationality off and superimpose them so
you can kind of get a general sense of
what each country's typical look was
like yes so using something like that I
could totally see how you could start
developing images from other countries
sure yeah rather than I'm gonna say the
typical probably American sure no and I
hear what you're saying but let's let's
not get ahead of your first comment
where okay there's I'm not seeing anyone
who is obese so let's let's just back up
for a moment and just remember that the
way that the Gann learns is through the
source material right so we have two
years worth of photos the studio has two
years worth of photos of people who have
come in and signed off and signed off on
this project and have said yes I'll
participate in this Yeah right so I
won't might have the faces let's let's
hook you up let's generate enough photos
can we make this happen so so so
understand
with that with those source images right
that's all that the Gann has seen so far
think about it has never seen
potentially I'm not saying it hasn't but
let's just pretend began the artificial
intelligence in its life has never seen
an obese person right so was know if
that's the case when it generates fake
people
it's not gonna know what an obese person
looks like to create it right so as this
project grows as they train it even more
as it as it learns it's going to become
that it's going to learn more and more
and more and that's their goal right now
this is like brand-new just released
just made available to you and it's
astonishing what they've been able to
achieve we're going to see it grow we're
gonna see that grow over the next little
while for sure I will say when I look at
all these photos well yeah presses me
the most is the hair yeah like display
you know getting some odd features of
the faces and stuff very very realistic
like yeah it's crazy so that brings me
to my next point why are there no
baldies began doesn't know bald
there was a bald guy really huge bald
head I want to say he was somewhere
around here okay well we'll just keep
scrolling if you find the bald guy among
the 100,000 photos pictures on generated
photos please point him out to me that
would be fantastic so I mean how cool is
it that they're able to that they've
chosen to now use that technology to to
give away free stock photos so backing
up just a second here all of those you
may not have again you may not have
access to an artificial intelligence
they have created this repository for
you it's generated dot photos read all
about it download the images pick the
ones that you want to use and those are
there for you so you could essentially
use the AI with your own fan
we photos to start generating no not yet
right right now that's a hundred
thousand photos that begin that they
have has created okay they are and I
wasn't even I wasn't sure if we were
gonna talk about this but just so you
know Jeff nobody else is here okay boys
they are working on developing software
which is going to be a part of the
project that may allow folks to be able
to create their own Gann generated
images based on specifications that they
provide you remember you know what it's
like in an MMO when you're setting up
your character and you said you know the
different proportions and you know how
how high you want them their shoulders
to be in all this to you'll be able to
do those things within that so but again
this is the very base it's just been
released I generated dot photos learn
more right there we do have to take a
really quick break when we come back
though we're going to be looking at how
we can tell the temperature of the room
the temperature of our devices all from
a little USB flash drive like stick
stick around
just before the break I mentioned that
we're gonna be looking at a way that we
can tell the temperature it sounds so
like not exciting right like everybody
has a thermometer you can grab one of
the dollar store and you know what the
temperature is you can ask your Amazon
echo what the temperature is outside but
what if you've got a server room or like
a computer room that you don't always
frequent okay do you remember the server
room at the radio station I do that room
was crazy hot oh yes we had to leave
your door open so yes that as soon as
you said our server room like yeah the
server room if it doesn't have proper
air conditioning or what if the air
conditioning goes down just quick yeah
quick examples right or what if you've
got a like a device that you want to be
able to monitor the temperature of so
what we're looking at today is a product
called temper and it literally when I
said it looks like a USB flash drive it
literally does like you probably
wouldn't be able to know the difference
between that and a USB flash drive now
what is cool about this is you see this
little screw hole it can be mounted
flush and screwed into a device oh cool
and then it's going to actually register
because the sensor is on the bottom here
and it is a metal casing it's going to
be able to register the temperature of
the device so do keep that in mind if
this is going to be sitting on a desk
it's going to be registering the
temperature of the desk
right similarily its conductive the the
heat is conductive on it so if you're
plugging this in directly into a server
you're not only going to be registering
some of the room ambient temperature but
you're also going to be registering some
of the heat coming off of the server
itself yeah right so it's important to
just grab yourself this little guy here
so you've got my boy what have I done I
pulled it apart don't worry it's all
good so what I've got is a like a little
six-inch USB extender yep reason for
that is if I plug this into my server it
can kind of hang there for me it's not
gonna grab the temperature from the USB
bus similarly if you want to mount it on
the surface of a device you can mount it
there and plug it into a reader maybe
you've got a 10-foot USB extension cord
for example that would that would work
as well yeah so we're looking
specifically at
Linux using the Tempur device The Temper
device can be purchased at cat5 dot TV
slash temper and I say that because I
want you to be able to find it it is
under $20 okay really yeah so this is
like a really quick cheap and cheerful
it's not DIY you don't have to buy a
bunch of Arduino parts and solder
everything together and figure out how
it goes and then create the firmware
know it's all ready to go out of the box
for under 20 bucks and you can just plug
it into USB it is waterproof as well so
if you want to use it for your weather
station it's going to work perfectly for
that I don't know that I would put it in
the fish tank and because it is
connected to a 5 volt cable but think
about like you could you could put this
end of it in the soil of your greenhouse
for example and measure the temperature
of your soil you could you could put it
in as I say you could put it in the in
the weather station you don't have to
quite worried about the fact that it
might get a little bit wet or you can
put it outside of the chassis of your
weather station you know pick up the
ambient temperature cool I guess picture
it going crazy with just having tons of
them in the soil and a grainy so you can
register ok those plants are like 20
degrees this one is 1 degree different
tomatoes generate heat okay so on Linux
I'm gonna do this but you can do this on
Windows you can do this on Mac it's
compatible interesting features with
Windows it has built in excel
compatibility there's like a hot key
read the manual but there's a hot key
you can press that will actually open
Excel and create a spreadsheet with the
temperature data
yeah it's all automatic it's all
built-in so how kind of cool to keep the
data for I don't know that Jeff I don't
use Windows I'm saying read the manual
and check that out it
on there it has that feature I will do
this on Linux because I want to actually
use this to code my own products my own
whether I want to use this too for my
nod Nagios server names Linux right if I
want to monitor the server room and have
it send me an email alert if the server
room gets too hot or too cold what if
what if the AC vent has been frozen open
in the winter here in Canada you don't
want and it's like minus 10 in the
server room well I want to know about
that but I don't go in the server room
every day right so those kinds of things
could be done so on my Linux machine
here I'm just gonna I'm gonna simply
well first of all I'm gonna type LS USB
and that shows me what USB devices are
currently detected and then I'm going to
plug this in to my USB port with the
extension cord and type LS USB again and
I see that a new device has popped in
here and it doesn't have a name but you
can see I did that just so that you can
see the difference between the two
checks and I've got stopped by the
screen so they can see the different all
you can't see that oh that thank you
Jeff
you guys probably wanted to see that
right first Jack is up here before I
plugged it in second check after I
plugged it in is right here there it is
that's the new device well how do I work
with that right
it's called temper and being that I'm on
Linux I can tap into any number of
resources but there are some great
projects already created for it and
that's what I can do now I'm in the temp
folder which I'm you know maybe I'm
going to go into my home folder to do
this because I want to be able to access
this down the road get out of my temp
folder because I don't want to lose it
when I reboot and let's clone so I'm
gonna first of all I have git installed
so app to install git if you don't
already have it
get clone and here's the repository that
I want to clone HTTP colon slash slash
github.com slash u RW e n slash temper
and when I hit enter there it's gonna
clone that it's like instantaneous and
if I go in there
seedy temper now I've got these files
here now there's one thing that I'm
gonna need and I'll show you what
happens here if I try to run temper dot
pie it says hey you're missing something
the cereal for Python 3 is missing so
I'm going to install that app install
Python 3 - cereal low if I spelled
Python right 3 - cereal and once that's
installed and my tempered device is
plugged into the computer now if I type
dot slash temper dot pie it's going to
register the tempered gold version 3.1
and it shows me that it's thirty point
seven degrees Celsius thirty eighty
seven point two degrees Fahrenheit does
it have like a minimum maximum but it
can handle yeah it does the max now that
is a that's an interesting question and
I didn't I didn't plan for this
I go cat five dot TV slash temper
windows questions yes there are mins and
maxes let's see okay so this is the
temper device let's see here real quick
cat five dot TV slash temper I believe
is the link and it's not working for me
right now but I gotta fix that
well accurately accurately read the
temperature from minus fifty five to one
hundred
oh you actually have the answer for this
you have the answer in front of you what
does it say Sasha
okay well accurately read the
temperature from negative 55 to 125
degrees Celsius or minus 27 to 257
degrees Fahrenheit Wow oh that's even
wider than I was expecting what I love
about that conversations you wrote the
show notes she asked the question she's
got the answer right just so now you
know so now we know they did an
important thing to know so the answer is
minus fifty five degrees Celsius
that's cold to 125 degrees Celsius
that's hot yeah look at that in
Fahrenheit minus 67 to 257 degrees so
I'm picturing the only time it would be
minus 55 degrees Celsius is if you were
in the Arctic I feel like that's the
only time it would ever get that cold
yeah you'd have to be pretty close
arctic circles it would not get to 125
and still be able to talk about it
outside so hasn't as in temperatures
been like 140 Celsius now oh yes also
something a Fahrenheit yes in a 140 yeah
Celsius Wow okay I gotta jump back to
this guy's okay I'm backing Mike in my
terminal here yes and we see that the
output there shows the bus it shows the
temper cold version 3.1 that's the
version the model of the device that I
have and it shows the temperature well
I'm a programmer I want to take it one
step further I want to do more yes I
want to parse data I want to know the
actual readings from this device so
instead what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
type dot slash tempered pie and then I'm
gonna do this watch dot - - Jason JSON
and watch what happens boom there's my
JSON response from the device so I can
now pull not only the firmware so I know
what firmware I have installed I've got
the hexadecimal value of the firmware
I've got hex missile it has exid s Mille
data but I've also got what into thermal
data ah so the data is responding in
Celsius okay so we can see it's twenty
nine point two seven degrees it is warm
in here in the studio yes and so with
that data now I can I can parse that
because it's JSON data so I can take
that into PHP I can take that into I can
use like a jason decoder for Bosh for
example I'm a Linux machine and now I
can start parsing things and doing
really neat things with that data so I
can set up thresholds and I can say okay
well if it is ten degrees Celsius in the
studio
turn on the heat or like let me know hey
it's really cold there you need to
figure out what's going on we don't even
need to i suppose i could code something
to like interact with my smart home yeah
but at least letting me know or if it
gets to be 32 degrees celsius well
there's something wrong with the a/c
unit i need to get in there right away
and start turning things down or
whatever so that is called the temper
device you can get one at cat5 TV slash
temper
very cool I love that it's it's built
it's ready to go it's and there's
nothing that I need to actually do other
than just decide how I want to program
and you said this syncs up to Nagios as
well sure I mean it's compatible with
NEMS Linux so you could just plug this
into your net server and set your
thresholds for low and high right and
it'll send you an email if it's outside
of those thresholds that's very cool
it'll let you know if the temperature
comes back to a good temperature yeah
it's stuff like this that I'm going ok
I'm totally picturing like a smart home
yeah you've got one of those in all the
rooms to hook up to nems that logs all
the information sure with a computer or
like a Raspberry Pi or something that's
not a speaker right beside say an echo
device where you've got some
pre-recorded things where it's like turn
the volume or turn the heat on in this
room oh my goodness like temperature
controls your house can you imagine so
you could use the speaker to control
Amazon echo you could use it for a
sensor for safety reasons to have it
close to the stove so it alerts you when
the stove is left on yeah or or when
it's cool again yeah if the wine fridge
is a little bit right right you don't
want to get storms for that you could
set it up so that it senses in your
showers so that you know when to step in
because the water is perfect oh wow now
we're talking that is nice please don't
run electrical cables into your shower
folks don't listen this I don't listen
to food it's waterproof but your wiring
might not be
Wow okay all of the water conservation
czar like Sasha you've done it wrong
you've done wrong all right well it's
very cool thank you yeah get one go
check this what season 13 is gonna have
I'm just like blown away I'm excited
I love the JSON output that's cool it
just takes that and says I can do
anything with it
anything at all there's no limit okay so
I have to know though you said that the
Excel output only works on Windows it
doesn't work with onyx I don't care
about that kind of stuff Jeff that's
like those features that are like oh it
does something out of the box that
you'll never use I like that I'll never
use if you're a Windows user and you
want to plug it in and open an Excel
spreadsheet and let it populate with
temperatures say the average it has that
feature I am intrigued that it has Jason
output that's what I care about I can
log I can log that to a log file you're
making line after line I can take this
so I'm gonna plug this back in and like
I'm talking like even just on the simple
right so let's run okay so now I'm gonna
grep that internal space temp and now
I'm just gonna get the internal
temperature right so that's all my
output is internal temperature so now I
can go like watch oh I can't grab with
watch but I could do let's remove the J
I could just have watch running like
that right how about something like that
there's just no limits to what you can
do that's all that's it yeah keep it
still the fact that you put the watch in
there like I'm thinking you know what
I'm just gonna be quiet because as weird
as it sounds this little thing is
suddenly got the wheels on my brain
turning and there's the options you just
mean a code get code and Jeff that's
picturing like smart mirrors on the
house oh yes oh yeah what's the coolest
DIY maker project that you've done now
this is not really a maker project
because it's already made but it can
inspire it could become a maker project
you sure whatever you plug it into
launched into something different sure
you could the greatest one I've seen I
want to say came out about three years
ago yeah I took a touchscreen TV yeah
and turned it into a mirror in his
bathroom with the projection screen and
a Raspberry Pi that showed the weather
for the day on coming events on this
calendar all this kind of stuff but
because it was touchscreen he could move
stuff around I was like oh nice like
that's just awesome and the great
picturing all the streaks all over the
mirror gave the instructions on how to
do it that's the maker community and I
just haven't done it yeah it's a lot of
work and that's what I mean when I say
like you don't have to do any soldering
with this it's already built you just
can buy it and it works so hey check it
out k5 TV slash temper but we do have to
move on because it's time it's time to
jump over to the category 5 TV newsroom
here are the stories we're covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Chipotle Mexican Grill has been leaving
money on the table thanks to an apparent
bug in the restaurant chains ecommerce
operation payment car thieves have
hacked the click to gov bill paying
portals in eight cities the German
Ministry of the Interior wants to take
back control of their digital sovereign
sub sovereignty cutting dependency on
Microsoft and looking for alternatives
and an anonymous bug hunter has publicly
disclosed the zero day flaw in the
popular vbulletin forum software that
can be exploited over the Internet to
hijack servers these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere this
as the category five dot TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with Linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman in
here the top stories were following this
week
operation last week
Jason Grigsby co-founder of app
development from Cloud 4 published his
analysis of the eateries online order
form the web page code he claims
contains an error that he estimates is
costing the company millions in lost
sales while attempting to submit an
order Grigsby encountered two error
messages one indicating that the website
had been unable to save his credit card
number despite having not checked the
box to allow this and the other being a
general submission error the errors
happened every time he tried to use his
browser's autofill capability but not
when the data was entered manually upon
further scrutiny he noticed that his
credit cards expiration date kept being
changed after the date was filled in
based on Chipotle's publicly reported
average order value of 16 to $17 and
assuming that fixing autofill would
increase transactions by half a
percentage point grigsby estimates that
Chipotle could clear an extra 4.4
million dollars in sales annually by
eliminating this bug while he regularly
sees problems with autofill on sites
Grigsby says quote Chipotle was just a
useful example I encountered and unlike
most companies they happen to have
provided some information in their
financial reports that made it possible
to take a guess
albeit a wild guess at what the
financial impact might be and quote
interesting okay so I'm a programmer so
I understand how these kinds of
accidental issues can crop up because we
can't test every everything right so if
I create a form to autofill and it's
taking the date of the credit card
expiry and it doesn't have proper error
handling well that can cause problems
with autofill
mmm-hmm said weird things from a
programming standpoint I mean whoever
created that portion of the Chipotle
website more than likely dated on a
business computer so the likelihood that
they're gonna have an auto-fill of their
credit-card information isn't very high
so yeah they may not even have clued in
to the fact that that's something they
should have tested yeah well you've got
a sandbox everything and you got to try
everything and like I do online
e-commerce sales all the time and like I
try to guess at what a user may
encounter but I still get a call once in
a while saying I can't fill in the form
for some reason right what I have to
look into it yeah when I click Auto fell
on some things it's wonky yeah sure yeah
some websites are the good thing about
this is this guy is now gonna get free
Chipotle for the rest of his life it is
interesting that from a business
standpoint just a small error like that
is potentially costing them billions of
dollars a years could be a year and it
makes you wonder could this be a
learning opportunity for other
e-commerce businesses to go we need to
take a look at our programming again
because maybe we're missing out on big
money look imagine if Amazon had a flaw
like this that popped up every once in a
while yeah how much money they would
lose right see though the difference
really would be in that if if I wanted
to buy something on Amazon I would find
a way to do it but if I was hungry for a
meal and Chipotle was causing a little
bit of friction to go somewhere I would
go somewhere else
fast and easy right so maybe Amazon
wouldn't lose out on the sale because
people would you know why isn't this
filling in I'm gonna figure it out right
let's try an Amazon is pretty much
figuring out the process because
everything's memorized anyways I just
click buy yeah there's tons of money
that Chipotle is probably losing out on
because people who are hungry probably
now we're gonna order from like Dino as
the researcher mentioned though it's
it's just one example of a potential
issue and he's been able to exploit it
and
and straight it yeah and kind of reverse
engineering enough to to understand
what's causing the problem but as a
consumer myself like it's my
responsibility to maybe like hey pick up
the phone and call Chipotle and say like
hey I'm trying to place an order here
and you're probably not gonna reach the
web developer you're gonna reach the guy
or gal who's making the the burrito I'll
take the order of the phone I mean I had
it happen where I was ordering for Papa
John's and the stupid website couldn't
take my order because Becca doesn't eat
cheese and it's not an option and it's
like no well yeah I'm not even gonna get
into it but no the OP the particular
option that we needed was not compatible
with the ordering process so because I
do eat cheese and I eat meat as well so
it's like a half-and-half thing yes
let's just leave it at that so I so I
placed an order as best as I could and
with the with the confines that they
offer and then I phoned them and I said
look that order that just came in here's
what's different about that half of that
pizza is no cheese right so it's just
like maybe that's our responsibility to
just kind of let them know and hopefully
they'll fix it and to be honest with you
I have had such success anytime I've
picked up the phone to call any company
for any reason at all big companies are
tough right like we're I work for a
small company so if you've called me up
and said your web form is not processing
my order properly I'll say okay one
let's try to get to the bottom of that
because I'd love to fix it for you but
also like let's take the order over the
phone I'm gonna help you with that and
get it straightened out for you but if
you have time let's let's walk through
it on your computer as well because I'd
love to fix it but I'm the guy who's
programming it so that's a good
opportunity for me when you call
Chipotle or Papa John's or whoever
you're calling there Amazon like you're
not talking to the person who's gonna
fix the bug good luck all right so I
mean with this story though like it's a
programmer who's notice this flaw sorry
your mic just dropped out sorry go ahead
like it's a programmer gonna notice this
flaw what the average Joe public notice
a flaw like this yes well they just be
like a Disney it doesn't work yeah
because I would say it doesn't work as
opposed to oh there's something wrong
programming they just go you might even
think it's something wrong with their
computer sure exactly so they may not
even turn it off and on again phone and
call yeah who knows to go yeah now I am
hungry so hungry now
payment card thieves have been have
hacked they click - gov bill paying
portals in 8 cities in 2017 and 2018
hackers compromised systems running the
click - gov self-service bill payment
portal in dozens of cities across the
United States a feat that compromised
300,000 payment cards and generated
nearly 2 million dollars in illicit
revenue now click - gov systems have
been hit by a second wave of attacks
that's dumping tens of thousands of
records onto the dark web researchers
with security firm Gemini address our
advisory said late last week that the
new round of attacks began in August and
have so far hit systems in eight cities
six of which were compromised in the
previous episode
many of the hacked portals were running
fully up-to-date systems which raises
questions about precisely how the
attackers were able to breach them click
- gov is used by utilities
municipalities and community develop
organizations to pay bills and parking
tickets as well as make other kinds of
transactions while the breaches affect
eight cities located in five states
payment cards belong to people in all 50
states have been compromised some of the
card holders didn't live in the cities
that were affected but transacted with
the breached portals possibly because of
past travels to those cities or because
holders owned property there the cities
with hacked portals are Bakersfield in
California
Pocatello and Idaho Broken Arrow in
Oklahoma a ames in Indiana and in
Florida Deerfield Beach Palm Bay Milton
and Coral Springs have all been impacted
people who have made transactions to
click - gov systems should check their
payment card statements regularly over
the next few weeks
okay well we want to trust these payment
processors yeah we want to trust them
that's tough what's interesting about
this one though is the fact that it was
on completely up to date systems
how does like your programmer I'm dong
I'm I'm just you know Joe Blow who likes
Linux how does that happen when you've
got an up to date system sure that they
can still get that exploit does it
really mean that it's not fully up to
date not necessarily I mean there are
exploits that are maybe not revealed in
the wild
right right okay for eternal blue was
publicly known it existed the NSA used
it that's true
so those those exploits existed they
just weren't publicly public knowledge
so that's an exploit but this to me as
the programmer would point to malicious
staff possibly okay a device on the
network that's man-in-the-middle
something like that could be the case as
well you'd be so stuck if you got a
parking ticket in Florida and you're
back here the only way you could really
pay that ticket is on the click to gov
website and they really force your hand
I mean my kids are in in school in the
public school system and the only way
you can order pizza on pizza day now
you can't send an envelope with cash
like they did when you gotta do it
online and the portal is how good Jeff I
don't know my wife does its trash is it
okay yeah I mean sorry to the
programmers but it was probably
developed five seven years ago and is
still in the state that it was then and
hasn't been updated since because the
you know yeah it works no it's it's
garbage and shouldn't be trusted but so
I feel like okay this this could easily
be exploited I'm sure who knows right so
then what you have one credit card that
you keep at a very low balance for
things that you think are dodgy which is
there's a neat idea thank you
refillable credit card from like a
Shoppers Drug Mart er yeah something
like that super cheap e throwaway credit
card yeah for for almost everything
online that's that's a good good idea
fix the general problem protects usually
the problem still exists but now I'm not
being impacted it means that sure but
how do you know when and who is gonna be
compromised almost everybody is so if
I'm gonna order online I can go to the
the local store where they sell like a
fifty or a hundred dollar Visa card that
I prepay and then I can use that to make
my purchases and I don't have to worry
about identity theft or credit card
theft right because presumably I'm just
gonna spend it everything on that card
right exactly
if you have a $50 parking ticket from
Florida or you know yeah Bakersfield
then go buy a prepaid credit card and
pay your parking ticket with that that's
it no not necessarily directly related
to the theme of this news story but I
feel like the last year we've seen a lot
of exploits that have impacted
government agencies and we talked we've
talked a lot about on the news that
quite often government just doesn't have
the money to have the latest and
greatest stuff with an expanding digital
economy and with an ever increasing
number of technology well people are we
gonna see a rise in this kind of story
where exploits and bugs in the system
that we just didn't know we're there
more people are gonna find and it's
gonna get used maliciously or do you
think at some point society is going to
say enough is enough
and there's gonna be enough good people
rising up to say I practiced I found the
problem it's not exploited anymore here
you go government a fixture issue oh
when that be would be nice if all the
hackers were good first of all
technology ball that I want to be a word
now
okay we're gonna we're gonna make that
into one word knowledge no just
technology ball one word yeah
that's ours it's gonna be on a t-shirt
in a week I think what it really can
come down to Jeff is budgets and and it
costs probably more to security audit
your software than to develop the
software budgets and awareness because I
know that there is a in Barry that was
that was just hit and it's a company
that has a lot of money in their budget
they just obviously thinking of the
foresight right like never gonna happen
to me yeah it's tough and I know as a
programmer that there's often not the
budget to write and if and I put my foot
down and I do things right and so I lose
contracts sometimes because I do say
look it's gonna cost X number of dollars
yeah because I work into my development
that I need to make sure I've done
ecommerce solutions where they wanted to
be able to store credit card data and
stuff and it's like you know what if
you're gonna do that that just added ten
fifteen thousand dollars to the price
just to audit it and to make sure that
everything is irreversibly encrypted in
a way that it cannot be compromised and
if it is the data can't be retrieved
right those are very important things
but a lot of companies they have a set
budget and they say okay well we're
gonna get this done let's make it happen
here are the features we are paying for
these features we're not paying for you
to dilly-dally no seriously what why is
that gonna take 30 hours right that's
the question that I get that that
programmers get and the problem is is
that some programmers will say you know
what well if we if we just do this we
can do it for less see and I feel like
that's just making society vulnerable oh
it is seriously that's why there's
that's why there's the rise in these
compromising attacks Jeff yes who is the
target I'm so thankful that you have
stayed
so honest and upfront about about
protecting people that you move with
like you're not going to let it slide
it's it's really good there needs to be
more of you that's it that's it I hope
that I always do the right thing
alright jumping over to our next story
Oh actually Robbie we have to take a
quick break first the crypto reports and
more of this week's top tech stories are
coming up don't go anywhere
the German Ministry of the Interior
wants to take back control of their
digital sovereignty cutting dependency
on Microsoft and looking for
alternatives I'll call the Federal
Ministry of the Interior BMI from here
due to the German name of those letters
which I won't attempt to a pronounce the
headline comes from an official
statement where the Federal Ministry of
the Interior horse Co first states that
quote in order to ensure our digital
sovereignty we want to reduce
dependencies on individual IT providers
we are also considering alternative
programs to replace certain software
this will be done in close coordination
with other EU countries end quote
BMI Commission's a strategic market
analysis from consultants PwC resulting
in a paper that was published last month
the paper examines the risks inherent in
IT dependency on commercial software
vendors with a particular focus on
Microsoft because of the heavy use of
its products and the way that they are
interconnected
especially Microsoft Office Windows
Windows Server and office 365 Oracle and
s AP also get a mention with a
recommendation for future examination
though PwC's analysts seem less
concerned about them because they occupy
individual product segments database and
ERP rather than being pervasive the
current trend toward integrated
cloud-based offerings such as office 365
Dynamics 365 and AI driven applications
on Azur give the customer enhanced value
but also increase increases lock-in
because the added value comes from using
them together the analyst identifies
several pain points the first is data
security telemetry transfers data to
Microsoft the user has limited insight
and control over this and it may contain
personal data and the report warns that
this raises concerns surrounding gdpr in
addition dependence on cloud services
raises the risk of outages or remote
deactivation
of software licenses the report also
adds that subscription pricing means the
potential for uncontrollable costs it
suggests that Microsoft has the power to
hoist prices or change the licensing
rules
there is also an intriguing claim that
using cloud services might may reduce
in-house IT competence because the need
to support on-premises software is
reduced and therefore threatened the
federal administration's ability to
innovate beyond diversifying their
software by breaking it up amongst
several vendors or negotiating to have
control over a telemetry data the
recommendation is clear build and use
more open source software the report
references several examples including
Munich's largely failed attempt to
replace Windows and Office with Linux
and OpenOffice subsequently reversed and
the more successful efforts of the
French police force to use Linux
LibreOffice and other open-source
applications the report suggests that it
is easy to identify advantages in
switching away from expensive
proprietary software but often hard to
accomplish they say to be realistic
ensure user acceptance do the necessary
training and proceed step by step it's
good advice yeah it is this is an
interesting story though and the reason
I find it interesting is because there's
a growing number of countries that are
ditching Microsoft and as I'm as I'm
listening to you give the story I'm
thinking Microsoft has to be worried
they should be worried because it's not
like a company goes oh we're switching
to Linux
you're losing countries that's a deal
it's interesting though because they are
centralizing all of their products into
the cloud yeah and they must realize
that ok well we're dealing with foreign
countries and and if I was a foreign
country
I wouldn't want all of that control in
an American company Yeah right and we're
talking like and when you're talking
about these things being tied in
together it's like yeah you
have to have this this and this in order
to have this feature no I just want that
feature I just want I just want to be
able to videoconference well I need
Microsoft teams now because Skype is
dead but in order to have Microsoft
teams I need to have office 365 and in
order yeah so this is the time and this
is what it was what worries me that was
they're looking at the cloud yeah
as a country would that not be a
potential security risk by having your
country's data hosted potentially out of
country or a on a private business
server that you have no control of like
imagine if say you know we're in Ontario
the City of Toronto say they decided to
move entirely cloud-based and all of
their financial records everything went
to the cloud and suddenly the company
gets bought out by multinational that
goes screw you
we've got all your data you take us to
court for it like mm-hmm wow I don't
know if a country should be going that
like the cloud based do it an internal
cloud that you own yeah it's really
really tough I mean this is the this is
the dilemma that we're all up against
every business is up against us where do
I put my off-site backup yeah and this
is why I lean toward offering as an IT
specialist offering cloud-based services
that are hosted here in Canada yeah
because Canadian companies want
encrypted data in Canada because of our
privacy laws so yeah and and we don't
want them to be hosted in the States
here from here in Canada we don't want
them to be hosted in overseas and and
similarly I would expect Germany
probably doesn't want all of their stuff
as you're saying to be hosted on
American servers or possibly random
locations because you know Microsoft has
colocation facilities all over the world
yeah I like how other countries talk
about Linux
so much it's layout it's like the this
is our redeemer as far as software
Europe tie-ins GARP doesn't why are they
because canonical is in the UK but it's
growing right like it's commonplace
people know it by by name and people who
aren't tech minded know Linux you know
you say it should say what yeah but
there's still that they still say oh
well that's scary
yeah they this is what happened in
Munich where maybe and maybe this is a
case I don't really know but here's a
scenario we talked about software and
why does why do people still get
compromised well what if we took a
country or a city and we decided to
let's switch everybody to Linux but then
let's not budget to support those users
it's really crucial that we're providing
high-level support because if I switch
you if I take away your Microsoft Office
and put you on OpenOffice not even Libre
Office but Open Office it's right yeah
you're gonna have trouble yeah
especially when you send a no DT file to
your friend who has Microsoft Word they
can't open a thing yeah but with proper
adequate support and I'm pay somebody to
do proper support of these free software
products so take those savings and
invest it in training and support would
that not make the difference potentially
yeah they look for the how do our
software how do we save money yeah oh
well cut Microsoft but see this is the
thing I as a secure as a professional in
the IT field have to put my foot down
and say you're not gonna have that web
service unless we invest in the security
end of it you're not going to be able to
switch to LibreOffice or Linux or
OpenOffice unless you invest in the
support to support your users because
otherwise it's just gonna backfire
mm-hmm so like let's put the money in
the right place it's got to happen that
way it's happening it's just yeah you
know stories like this make me happy
because it means that people are looking
in the right direction yes see I'm
thinking Munich but no we're thinking
Germany and this is the is the direction
that we're going
yes so I hope if anyone from that
government is listening hey here's what
you need to do invest in the support of
that free software the software is free
it's gonna save you money so invest in
the support and this goes for your
company this goes for your like for
anyone who's thinking about switching to
open technology
I really hope cat5 shows up on a
government report in Germany that says
yes the IP guy is French I don't know in
Canadian we have English and French and
[Laughter]
German an anonymous bug hunter has
publicly disclosed a zero-day flaw in
the popular vbulletin forum software
that can be exploited over the internet
to hijack servers a simple HTTP POST
request can be abused by an attacker to
remotely execute commands on the
targeted vbulletin server without any
authentication that would allow hackers
to commandeer web servers powering the
forum software steal data tamper with
information launched assaults on other
systems and so on it can be done in
fewer than 20 lines of Python code this
is a very very bad thing the zero day
exploit code is verified to work against
supported versions of vbulletin from 5.5
dot zero to the latest five point five
point four built and there is no known
patch available and the creators of the
bulletin have yet to comment on when one
might be released meanwhile security
professionals are marveling at the
simplicity of the exploit and how ends
the extent to which vulnerable boards
can be owned by the attack the bulletins
customer base includes a number of large
companies sports teams and into
taemin groups that are now exposed until
such time as the developer can figure
out effects and that's assuming their
server admins are on top of patching web
sites running vBulletin version 5 first
released in 2012 are advised to keep a
close eye on their servers and make sure
nobody is attempting to exploit the
vulnerability and use it as a
springboard for further attacks better
yet maybe just pull the plug completely
until a fix is released or some type of
mitigation is available mm-hmm buy
mitigation I'm thinking like maybe a
like if you're if you're wise to the
methodology that they're using to
exploit vBulletin you could create like
an HT access rule for example that would
monitor for a particular string and
redirect to a file in that file logs the
IP address of the user and then you use
maybe CSF to config secure firewall to
block that IP address in your firewall
for example right so mitigation could
take place if you know the string that
they're using and I do this with
WordPress all the time so I watch for
like injection attacks and things like
that and if they happen or somebody
hitting WP login.php well you know if
it's not coming from my IP address it's
a malicious user because they're trying
to access the WordPress login form and
and so I just you know now I can block
their IP address based on that right so
but yeah scary stuff yeah imagine if
you've got this service running on your
web server and a hacker an attacker like
a script kitty this is like anybody that
knows about this exploit can just run
anything on your server with a couple of
lines of code yeah as easy as just to
put a post request no I mean Sachi you
said that we were talking sports teams
as well have this on the web sites yeah
like do they take their sites down you
kind of have to if you don't this again
comes down to like we build a website
and we don't have anyone actually
actively supporting it this is the fear
is that while you mentioned well if your
team is up on up on all the patches then
you know watch for the patch but what if
you have a vBulletin website and a forum
and you don't have an active team
monitoring and maintaining that website
which is very often the case with these
kinds of sites sports teams included I
hope that they step up and really figure
it out yeah so what can this kind of
exploit do well well my my forum isn't
really all that important so I mean if
they hack it whatever accept it can't
they just getting using that then yeah
yeah
how does ransomware spread yeah so well
through the yeah we just need an EM we
just need a way into your network so if
I have a server running this and it's on
my network then they can use that to now
encrypt all the files on your other
computers okay if it's not on your
network and it's just a hosted service
somewhere maybe you're using like a
co-located server or something well you
can the data can be stolen all the data
all the logins all the credit card
information of the people that are
signed up to your sports teams and any
anything that's on the server can be
taken or encrypted and used as ransom
and if they don't have any like hashing
on passwords and stuff like that like
what are some of these old software
programs don't ya like em md5 yeah
exactly I mean the fact that you know
some of the versions go back to 2012
yeah how many people are still running a
site you know your company site that
they put up yeah you know five six years
and if it's active and they can't they
can't just replace it they've got a
thousand users exactly so now like
you're potentially giving up all their
unhatched password oh my like come on
yeah this is just yeah so if you're
using Viva Land 5 any line of people in
five please like just you know what
remove it from your server turn off that
website whatever you need to do for now
until there is a report from the people
and developers that hey they're they're
doing something and that's patched or
fixed and you can actually patch it
we've got to quickly take a look at the
coin gecko crypto market report now we
didn't do one last week because we had a
down weak because of the transition from
season 12 to season 13 and so this is
over the past two weeks we've seen
pretty much everything drop right now
there is one coin that is holding steady
oh and that is Facebook Libra yes still
zero zero yeah but here's what the
market looks like at 1800 hours Eastern
Time on Wednesday September 25th 2019
Bitcoin dropped almost 2000 US dollars
in the past two weeks eight thousand six
hundred and twenty three dollars and
eighty seven cents is where it's holding
as of this recording light coin is down
to 50 799 u.s. aetherium is not dropping
too much only a couple of bucks but a
one hundred and seventy two dollars and
twenty three cents u.s. Manero is down
to sixty dollars and 46 cents I don't
know what causes things to go up and
down that's what's interesting about the
cryptocurrency market you never really
know what's gonna happen so hey be
careful Scala previously known as torque
or stellite is cut in half so where it
was zero point six six ten thousandth of
a sentence now 0.33
two weeks back to the name they just
renamed their coin I was gonna say we
did talk about that a couple of weeks
ago I wondered it itching their names is
probably ruining some like some faith in
the coin I mean it I think so turtle
coin is also losing though Jeff it's
down to point two four ten thousandth of
a cent that's a big drop it well not as
much I mean it was point three nine two
weeks ago but it's still sighs I was
like what forty percent that's well
that's yeah point point one five ten
thousandth of a cent is the drop so yeah
everything's everything's going down so
really the point when you see the trend
like that over the past two weeks it's
just to remember that if you're gonna
invest if you're gonna crypto mine if
you're gonna be a part of the
cryptocurrency marketplace just make
sure that you only invest what you can
afford to lose because there is a very
high potential that you could lose but
there's still a potential that you could
gain as well so just make sure that you
know that it is volatile it's very
dangerous to invest in so don't invest
if you can't afford to lose it
and just remember that it's always
changing it never closes so 24/7 the
market goes up and down and you have no
way to really tell ya exactly what's
going on yeah
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Jeff Weston we got to take a really
quick break folks stick around alright
well there we have it that's our first
episode of season 13 I hope you've all
had a great time I hope you've had fun
who's it for who's it for someone I got
like five of them Wow nice I got three
things really awkward around here folks
but hey next week we have a fantastic
show for plant for you
Amy double D is going to be joining us
she's gonna well she is a world famous
maker yeah yeah I mean she has hacked
the Tesla car she's a body hacker she
does some really cool stuff and she's
gonna be joining us here on category
five technology TV to tell us you know
what inspires her and what kind of cool
hacks she's been up to
so you definitely want to be here with
us next week don't miss the show in the
meantime don't forget that we are on
twitter at category 5 TV
I personally am on Twitter as well at
robbie ferguson if you want to follow me
and I do follow back we're on YouTube as
category 5 technology TV we've also got
one called Linux tech show look that up
Linux tech show is like individual
little snippets that are a lot shorter
so you can just catch like a 20 minute
clip here and there catch the news room
things like that versus category 5
technology TV which is the full one
one and a half hour show every week like
having a snack versus a big meal
yeah but subscribe to both because then
you're gonna get the best of both worlds
you might watch the full show and say oh
that would be a really great clip to
send to my friend whoever and so then
you grab it off of Linux tech show and
they don't have to watch the full show I
can just watch that clip do keep in mind
as well we're on Plex and Kodi you can
get those through our github page which
is cat5 TV and of course our main
website brings everything together
including RSS feeds and like google
podcasts and everything else that
category-five dot TV that's all the time
that we have for this week though folks
I hope you've enjoyed the show and I
look forward to seeing you again next
week take care
you
