welcome to the coffee break everybody I
hope you've got your cuppa Joe I've got
my cup of joe so I already was a pledge
was all you yet that you want and Jeff
wasted Jeffers I mean a employee because
there they go
did you catch it did you see Jeff
yesterday yeah
I'm Joe excellently add all that later
yeah as well of the day and it's like
George there they go
I'd like your average wage and I have to
I'm gonna have to go look at the at the
recording again because I saw the only
show the live recording I didn't catch
catch yesterday welcome back category
five yeah last night of course we
broadcasted the like at the at the
lifetime well sort of there's about a
half-hour late but I got there he's got
there it looked like you've cream
accorded most of it Robbie you said well
I had to I had to bring it all together
because I the studio isn't built right
like so you're going together really
well I was impressed
thank you the nice job yeah I love the
the to Robbie's next week three of them
every every week I'm just gonna add one
more Rob I wanna see you take track of
the dialogue that's gonna be the fun
part yeah oh boy yeah it was already
complicated enough with just two I'm
sure hello Sabu oh he can't hear me
because you took it off oh dear so this
I should I should introduce everybody
for those of you who are joining us for
the first time we got be p9 up at the
top left we've got Peter at the top
right and then there's me hi soul boo in
the middle and agamotto on the
and then at the bottom Ron Morissette
hey guys oh it's the same motley crew
isn't it yeah that Robbie keeps showing
up I'm surprised some folks have been
saying that they'd still they still
don't know about the coffee break and
here we are every single day for 33 days
if I can figure it out come on yeah and
Here I am the so it's the day after our
first broadcast in studio E so what I'm
experiencing is the overwhelmingness of
the amount of work that I'm going to
have the next little while because you
guys know like when the shows on the air
I'm already super busy because I worked
a whole time and then I produce the show
but I also write the news stories and do
all the coordination and everything so
so today Thursday's are usually what I
do is on my lunch break which is now
typically my schedule is this would be
the time that I edit out the newsroom
edit out the interview and create the
individual snippets for Linux tech show
com of course I'm not doing that today
because I'm on a coffee break and then
Friday Friday I take the newsroom and I
break it up into the individual stories
and upload the news stories hey I'm
gonna hit this this snowball of I'm
gonna be overwhelmed with the amount of
editing work that I'm going to be doing
all at once I think if I keep out at the
coffee break it's just a minute it's
just a matter of getting back into the
same routine you're in before but that
routine did not include coffee break
right that's right yeah so the coffee
break has been I think that's where you
know some comments have been coming in
that you know they wish
viewers have wished that we were on
the air during the you know the end of
March so that they could have you know
felt a little closer to the show but I
think that's what kind of at what the
coffee break has brought is we've tried
to you know I've made an effort to try
to still stay community connected to the
community and give you guys this I think
they have Toya I dented up thank you I
think before I around called my dream g1
Bobby no Bobby I'm sorry couldn't make
help you I played a guy I played I gave
you a new ground a new body building boy
oh okay all right thanks yeah
all new stories are subject to the
criteria that we that we've established
on category five so if you don't see
your submission on the air then that
just means that it wasn't approved or
that you know there were other stories
that needed to be covered yeah so but
thank you I appreciate that and as as
you see news stories that are of
interest that you think that you'd like
to have the team cover just send them in
and if they if they do or don't get on
the air like vp9 is is known to
sometimes send us stories you know bp9
that sometimes they get on sometimes
they don't so it is it's subject to the
limitations of the half-hour segments
and and we do have very strict criteria
about the types of stories also another
thing that another part of the criteria
is that we do story bedding as well so I
think there was one time when a story
got through that was a little on the
fence whether it was true or not and and
so we've we've established if I can't
find three sources that are independent
of one another then we will not we will
not air that story
they're like ooh like yeah yeah oh yeah
but even when it's from the local paper
it's gonna be on like a Google search I
mean these days where are the local
papers getting most of their news to
article in the each article have a page
where you can discuss the article and
proposed changes and disgusting I think
for sources where removed because of the
and the the argument was that all four
sources had did the same single in
verbage yeah they have the same yeah
well this is the thing and and I know
because I'm in media
we're on PR lists so we get a lot of
email and those emails are sent out and
and what you'll find is is you'll say
okay well is this credible is this true
and do a search and you'll see oh yeah
there are ten other people saying this
but then you realize that it's the exact
same verbatim verbage yes just rumors in
the same source yeah and so there's
still only one source even though we
found 10 other copies that same thang
Bertrand what is going on
somebody's sandpapering
I think it's like a scratch-and-sniff or
maybe lottery Taylor's here you win the
million dollars yeah if you win the
million dollars then I want you to share
it with us that sounds like a lottery
ticket I'm not hearing a thing maybe I'm
a CPA 9 in my old I must be deaf in my
old age I don't know that people over
over a certain age they stopped hearing
things that the use can still hear
like there were cool yes making them
pick up your songs Robbie yeah I'm sorry
I'm at that age let's solution here is
hang your underwear
megamode oh you dropped off at hang your
underwear underwear yeah exactly
at least you're not a stage where you're
hanging your underwear on the door
just to make sure don't know so just
pretend I'm gonna move myself and see if
you still hear the screams it's gone
it's stopped
okay yeah so it's not moving no I was
just joking I was just playing with you
you messing with me Robbie you would
never do that not in a public forum not
unless you're alone or with someone
right donate doc category 5 TV
yeah I agree should the moment of the
game of Kali 3 to tie a does work a lot
to things a little meaty like that
absolutely setting filming but in the
bunny Bridget are gay and you is this
the one
is this the same game you were working
on previously yeah yeah yeah
so did he were you able to work out the
audio issue no no yeah no no but the
game is running so that's good I'm a a
dildo impacted one which would be where
you can work at what God really dancing
and
in a way that given I have to accept it
as well from the range of volatile
because welcome and we never shown
ideally 20 foot return of the goalie
there because they only do difficult
figure out in the month the DVD would be
matched and the Iguana could yet be
one-third the picture that they not and
then bring the plane model which is so
wait why I doing things but he does work
good glad you're already you're already
doing stuff Peter that that has grown
faster what a lot of the stuff I do is I
don't do sound and I don't believe I've
done any printing from any of my
applications either so you're already
treating treading ground but I've never
been yeah yeah but I did it we know
those it's okay we don't get in front in
support of the moment or when I get it
suppose I will get there to work on it
as well but for the moment so if anybody
wants to did they put the go somewhere
and okay cue disruption didn't make the
run and when Elliot folks and dry out
you know gave me the beach in
monodevelop I don't think you will need
to give a go I think it's 15 years ago
Linda's Taurus yes having a talk at the
as American History Society and half an
hour talk and then are now we're doing
are free of the questions and he
mentioned how he started doing coding
for those who aren't familiar with them
Lingus Torvalds is the creator of Linux
the kernel they got used to this father
over here and don't not show you
but the data computer he got was and it
was not a very popular computer outside
of Finland so he couldn't get any
software so everything had to do he had
to do himself and he said that he made a
few games that he played once yeah it's
the learning as you as you do it like if
you do it it's just to have that that
end game result that it gives you a
target to achieve he was already doing
this done this world ten years almost
something every year and when he started
they're going to to the University and
discord you next time you want to be at
home but he couldn't afford it and if he
was already there doing everything
himself so how how could it be right so
that's one of the big arguments about a
bed open source when you talk to
businesses and corporations who were
trying to who you might be trying to
convince to use open source solutions
it's a question of whether support come
from and and how does the publisher of
the open source make any money on it and
I guess they do that through support
right provider yeah yeah Red Hat exactly
but Lina say I've often wondered how
does he because he doesn't he's not a
support guy right Foundation miners like
okay that's cool that's good yeah yeah
it's an interesting because he was asked
he got a job
- just met after me the chips and he got
them to agree in their job the contract
that he was free to do a Linux on his
spare time and if necessary mo is
listening to the radio at the same just
came in with his microphone ablaze and a
contract that said that he was free to
do Linux in spare time and if necessary
also for his job and yes that's a and he
still retained all rights to any code he
made that's that's good that he had the
foresight to do that like to work that
into the contract because I mean the
immediate one that comes to mind is
nginx and how yeah they've just gone
through that super stressful situation
of having the developers former employer
claimed rights to the ownership of the
nginx code which is open source because
they think they own everything he
created yeah exactly because at the time
that he created nginx he was working for
them so so to know there's a general as
a general rule as an employee or a
contractor it doesn't matter any code
that I write that belongs to the company
I'm working for or that is for the
company I'm working for that code
belongs to the company it's not if it's
for the company yes
like really understand or clock but if
you're doing it at home again this is
what's not clear with that particular
thing this is
a Russian law so they had it works a
little bit different area and that is
part of the problem is that they have a
different law regarding that and they
didn't have it in the contract yeah they
may have a verbal agreement but as long
as I'm signing anything it's I said you
said yeah one way to help resolve that
is if you have a PC or a laptop that
issued to you by your by your work you
know company that you work for don't put
anything personal do just work work of
that machine you'll leave personal stuff
out of don't do anything I mean I've
heard of so many people who keep
personal documents on their work laptop
you're crazy you're nuts to do and we're
we're in an odd world aren't we work
world like right now people are working
from home so guess what they're either
taking home a device from work to use at
home or they're using their home
peripherals in order to do work so it's
like where's the line so be thinking
back to your comment about you know you
a verbal agreement doesn't really mean
anything well nowadays see in 2020 you
can just push record on the zoom meeting
so you got proof because we're not
allowed to meet face-to-face you are
doing because only the host can do that
I think yeah unless the host gives
grants access to it yeah so you got to
initiate the call oh I died when I draw
this out somebody and the bicycle to
drop we're told it was in software and
like two they graduated and capitalized
out as I as I got the Oh again I change
it back because that I'm against it
which I yeah it was telling objects will
blow and reboot
living by delight Lily go all we can
hope all we can hope is that Peter has
not been coding his numbers game on a
company laptop zoom is always an
adventure guys you never know what's
gonna happen I think I think an
ambulance I think I heard an ambulance
go past I think that's what he's dogs my
or the dog is barking at maybe 25 30
people in anything and almost everyone
officials and they were about to start
anything and one of the he was a
minister of the government in some
capacity and he was talking down some
woman who was for the meeting and he
didn't know and he forgot to turn it in
yeah and the host commute folks as well
with coffee break I mean unless it gets
bad I'd prefer not to like government
will do that like government will have
it set up so that everyone is muted
unless they're allowed to talk Oh given
voice yeah yeah yeah exactly no I've
worked there's a I've worked as I was I
did the same as what you do so booth
sound sound technician for a
presentation that somebody had up on the
stage and what I did not know is that he
turned off his radio mic and so I was
trying to get sound through the through
the sound board I was terrified of
winding up that pot because I knew that
if I wound it up too high it would start
squealing through the thing but you know
it was another way he turned it off now
here's the opposite story negotiate of
course you got that
quickly bring up what here's an opposite
story for you that you'll appreciate vp9
when I was I played the Tin Man In The
Wizard of Oz and during that performance
while I was on stage one of the one of
the like I don't know just one of the
characters had gone back stage with his
mic pack on oh boy and had a PE the
restroom hasn't he yes he had and and
like we hear the story but it actually
happened to us so it's the Opera House
in Ravenhurst there's a 35 wireless
lapel microphones and the guy working
the board is trying to figure out which
one is it
meanwhile we're on the stage singing
well it actually happened to me so yeah
well it's just one thing that people in
and in the last episode we're ending and
ending this the series one of the
characters he's going to do a radio
interview at BBC and he has never done
this before and he fell for the biggest
the biggest trap that you can fell into
an after date you was over yes thank you
thank you but they were still rolling
and he about what the government
actually should do but they were yeah
and then everywhere to know this the
office knowing and he and he schooled
him and and but he told his secretary
that you should always treat every
microphone Allah
oh yes we know that in broadcast and and
oh actually when so you guys watched the
interviews last night and I do that soul
boo where I keep tapes rolling all the
time
tapes right but so Bo
during the interview when he introduced
himself then he proceeded to show us
that he's sitting in the the warehouse
he's at his office that was actually a
clip from after the interview was
completed so so I do that as well so
that clip made it into the interview
because I thought it was appropriate to
see hey this is a married right yeah
yeah but what we do of course like you
know everything that we do is you know
we aim to be ethical so though there
would never be a point of you know
concerned that somebody said something
and even when I was interviewing Amy we
came to a point where we were talking
about about Lego masters and I
understand she's under embargo with some
stuff so I just made it clear like this
right now we're not it's recording but
it won't be used and so that we could
have that discussion so there's you know
the full disclosure we're recording
everything that you say is on is on tape
until until we say goodbye so if someone
wants a good example of how not to do to
behave it around the microphones watch
the last episode of the biggest one is
yes and the very last episode it's quite
fun they touched on that today
speaking of British comedy shows Michael
Crawford from Phantom of the Opera we
talked about him a few days ago yes to
take the TV series the British TV series
that I was thinking of was some mothers
do album it is a no it is a British
comedy series and now where he came from
so that's why I was that's why I was
expressing so much surprised that he was
able to do such a serious wrong yeah
yeah and from those from those roots
speaking of British series did does
anyone here watch Veera
no yeah well Brenda is also she just
started doing a comedy which really
seems out of like you when you're used
to the Viera character which is a very
serious like it's a murder-mystery it's
like you know kind of along the the tone
of Shetland I suppose has that kind of
dark tone to it but so taking her from
that role as the investigator the pie
into a role of a comedy it's kind of
it's really kind of weird but it's
something fun appeared in Picard oh yeah
as the base commander oversaw get to see
that on the Orville Lara's dad is played
by Robert Picardo
and people who play a certain character
and to see them yes probably what you
need to remember what you need to
remember is that the the EMH was only a
hologram yeah that was like a guys I'm
gonna keep this coffee break going as
well as I possibly can
there may be times when you'll see me in
discord and say hey vp9 can you host it
today left to be Marsh man or someone
else may come yeah it may come to that
yeah I'm gonna see I'm gonna do my best
to have the show edited this week and
ready to go except that I can't start
the meeting because no no I I always
always start the start okay yeah that's
okay and that's why I keep the the ID
the same as well perfect if not I'm
going to change the ID every month so
how do I change one real quick focus we
got to wrap it up got a final heart
colonel announced the Odroid C for today
so they I knew I knew it was coming but
they didn't they gave us very scant
details and I asked Justin at heart
colonel to please give us a heads up so
we can get our product pages ready
traditional Odroid style you found out
at the same time as everyone else ten
o'clock last night he sends me an email
saying sorry I can get you the
information sooner but it's open for
sale now now I'm busy trying to get all
the products and accessories pages up
and just it's like two or three days
worth of work and I'm trying to cram it
in here in the morning but good nice to
get just a little bit of warning just a
little bit of warning would be nice
notice that the c-4 was coming out other
than through our through our informants
through our super married roid spies
just rosemary shuffling around in the
background to think about them and then
they normally forgetting a few things
yeah so go to a married calm because
presumably bow is gonna have all the c4
information up there very very soon well
the product page is up there right now
but none of the accessory pages are yet
yeah and no blog post or anything yet so
yes I'm doing today good luck man can't
wait to see the product so it looks
really good from the early shots
what I understand is this got emmc and
it's meant to be like marshmallow was
saying it's it's roughly equivalent to
like a raspberry pie but with the MMC
and a slightly faster clock speed
significant significantly faster than
the raspberry pie for it's gotta be for
and over two gigahertz clocks for you do
you have a price yet about there
tremendously nice sweet four gigs four
gigs for 55 bucks Wow
oh man that's as soon as the Raspberry
Pi community comes about and says maybe
we should see what other stuff is out
there they're gonna be mind blown like
well doesn't make it's such a huge
community but it's like okay if you've
never tried a no droid like my xu4
that's my go-to because it's so much
better than a Raspberry Pi but as c4 Sam
you can still do you can still do GPIO
and I squared C and all that on those
yeah on the Odroid oh yeah right there
you have it I don't want to offend the
Raspberry Pi community I love their
boards but it's like there's so like 55
bucks for 4 gig and it's faster and it
has emmc support that's a no-brainer for
me yeah anyway guys looking forward
already to tomorrow's coffee break I'll
see you there
have a great afternoon Arobin see you
later bye enjoy
