[Music]
welcome to the coffee break
it's the Oh what is today the 28th of no
the 29th of April 2020
I got to remember to start checking that
beforehand hi everybody hello Ron it's
great to see that you insole boo or
social distancing and also that you've
got him nicely trained to make you a
sandwich
boy I can't wait till Sunday when I'm at
the studio and I can I can be right
there with Sabu distancing buddy having
a good day oh lucky you it's pouring
rain here but ah well this year is will
I I'll be working like a one-sided word
probably working by out it I managed to
get some of my my best but I told you
that I had some time but I feel I should
go yesterday
and I mentioned like the back door which
was 390 plate which wasn't very happy
about there they they did on to the back
door and the back door so I had a goal
in the lock this morning without you did
claim in me in the logs with to fix the
door are you saying somebody are you
saying someone broke in now excited
about my life is getting the press the
dole yesterday the back door early your
your relatives dead yeah okay yesterday
you know why did they break the back
door like they could not you know that
right no no they're always go a tidy
Bowl but they don't know now what was I
they don't think did they think that
gaming I think they put to that door
driving both the negative oh man yes no
Peter when once you've got it all fixed
which is going to cost you a hundred
bucks
goodness me
great 90 quid yeah then you need to get
a little sign on the back door that says
you know not don't break em so greetings
everybody I see Ron Morissette is
waiting for his sandwich soul boo is
there new places at once hey so boo we
got Peter who you all know we've got bp9
hey bp9 good morning and bollock now ski
from Ameritrade hi Bo hello it's good to
have this little break once once a day
yeah so what are we talking about today
well that's the great thing about a
coffee break there's no set set rules I
mean I could ask bp9 if he's ever seen
any alien spacecraft would he admit it
okay yeah tell them so boot tell them
yeah in some videos appeared over the US
Air Force and following a flying object
no one know what it is so boo if if
nobody knows what the flying object is
then it must be an unidentified flying
object and it was flying at speeds that
no human aircraft ever can produce so
the Pentagon has officially acknowledged
that yes they have you attract a few
UFOs so yeah no word yet whether or not
it was piloted by aliens
so there Robbie get it going you and use
them in your new sir it'll be in the
news today oh yeah good okay of course
of course can't not mention something
like that particularly I have to check
the post-processed
show from last week because somehow
somewhere you put a team hat on on just
the thumbnail for that one story
you said you submitted that news story
about at home yeah so the the thumbnail
is Geoff with a tin hat and he's in a
padded room and it says over his
shoulder what now oh boy you've noticed
but he's got very very red here you
notice that I know he's that he's very
ginger it's very ginger I hope that's
politically correct I'm sorry if it's
not sorry I had I had a beautiful head
of dark hair yes it just goes to show
that once it's posted on the internet
you can never get rid of it yeah there's
probably some pictures out there with me
with hair although I'll tell you when I
was a teenager so 14 15 16 I had long
hair gorgeous hair but did it grow from
the top of your head or did it do like
Joe yes the cow yeah no I did run from
the back I didn't bald until strangely
after I was married oh I was thinning by
them
so I about 2000 my head was starting to
them and then I just the stock
altogether does good yeah
nice well I've been reading up I did him
a mail run my time my pint time has not
arrived yet unfortunate well you know
wouldn't hurt to look right to see if it
shows up but it is the question is who's
gonna unbox it first either
wp9 bp9 on coffee break or Robby on
category-five it's really well Robby
you're a TV personality you get stuff
sooner than I do anyway so not no not
this no I just I had to order it oh okay
just like everyone else and I ordered it
after you so mm-hmm
I was reading up on the documentation
I'm not sure I forget who I was talking
who I was discussing the the real-time
clock with whether whether it was
yesterday or a few days ago and I have
to risk all the Christology yeah I have
to go back and look at the at the
documentation on the website because the
implication on the website was that the
real time clock portion or the ticking
portion was a separate device on the you
know that was installed on the circuit
board but I don't see it when I looked
at the when I looked at the
documentation for the CPU itself it
looks like it's built into the CPU and
that kind of makes sense because even
with the theme in standby mode it still
has to be some sort of a ticker some
sort of a crystal going on that keeps it
alive otherwise it can't it can't
respond to any kind of stimulus like you
know accelerometer interrupt or anything
like how different how different would
our world be if when our watches fell
asleep time stopped you could get so
much done so you could finally make that
stupid sandwich
beeping I but my wife bugs obvious what
you have today yesterday
oh it arrived a yeah yeah it was pretty
good
you clearly many going man whoever base
multiply and divide time then he's
dolphin got got an hour before greeting
and then produced on the time she left
did you know fixated I will just look at
there go my baby structures okay and
obviously did I did that cuz they
corrected itself so they don't Google is
really be pretty time ago in there so
Peter is the whole island of the of the
UK including Ireland and and and Wales
I think I went to separate literally a
separate island isn't well you're on the
same time zone as the as the main part
of England is that true yeah so you're
so when you're on summer time you are
not at GMT you're at GMT plus one is
that true blades in Northumbria the
drama clubs in Oakland where the try to
better tell about a bundle like but she
was quite shocked as a question itself
as you can understand she's all I cried
today but it was the line the atomic
clock doesn't care about summertime or
anything like that it just object we
just keep sticking that same signal
without regardless of what summertime or
whatever we're doing an atom that glob
very vague particularly could be and if
you thought I'd you down and then you
that
do you remember what frequency that
atomic clock radio station transmits at
or no I think it on I think you don't
get it so I could I'm not sure I could
find out with
I'm just wondering if my short short
wave receiver could you wouldn't get it
everyone's in America though I'm doing
it I wanna show you okay okay I'll find
that be wonderful and I can I can google
it just as easily I just thought you
might you might have the answer just
like the top of your head since you live
in the area
yeah quickly target if you think though
when you you to match a threat to its
though that time there on - on - let's
do that - could you just use it at fall
on template a lot rectory and as yet a
cow whatever that work or what you have
to do things I we go it does depend on
it if I understand correctly you're
asking if if you provided a binary of
your program we might be able to just
run it directly on the Linux box no no
III got a dip with a Bachelor and the
Bachelorette will so all the best Rick
does is just automate the process of
what you would normally talk on the
keyboard right so well I could as easily
type in each of those commands that are
inside the basket
manually if I felt like doing that and I
you know would they would do exactly the
same yeah a question becomes whether I
have all the libraries on my machine
that you require that your program
requires that's relocated constraint
that's where I would be going for more
like a Deb pack which will include
dependencies so there's a track your Deb
pack is it's similar it's like a script
that will put the files in the right
places but it will also make sure that
the user has the correct dependencies
installed and if they don't it will
install them well if you build a if you
build a debian package you have to make
sure that all any file name that you use
is unique from any other package in the
whole wide world
yes you're right stuff otherwise you'll
stop
someone else's on someone else's
programming you don't you don't want to
[Laughter]
Google never do you're gonna have to go
to line one I have you but I I don't
know how to tell you Peter yeah Google
is the best place I I have some
information and like one of my
repositories I think names of men has it
but mm-hmm
like or beyond packaging we did one text
file in the other pocket and there are
several text file there's a whole folder
of us but it's the same concept all
right so uh Red Hat
you use rpms for RAM for Red Hat based
devices
you know distributions and Debian
packages for Debian based distributions
like open - yep that'd be good question
to send into the show I guess is that
that would be another that'll be your oh
yeah we'll have a Peter series so far
we've got github on the on the roadmap
so now now we're gonna add creation of
Deb packs I'm gonna select rod to your
calendar row because yeah there's some
good stuff coming up
category five dot TV / subscribe my iCal
is right there all right perfect
[Applause]
someone joined there and wanted to start
doing packaging and he yeah he said that
he came from Debian because he was tired
of all the problems over there creating
a Debian package oh yeah he was a
packager who gave up on Debian packaging
because of all the different files you
have to be aware of so you can't just be
very only have to edit one file so I
couldn't get it so too
dividing soulful I predicted wouldn't
Devens wouldn't reported without
religion
I just gave up so that was often to what
the other way of doing it you know I
don't beat to death backs anyway job
doing mm-hmm
I don't know what I don't know what I'm
I came in a profile is such a nutrient
no that is that my future so you can
install packages entre system it is good
I aim of and at the name of the package
and it it one window they and Debbie a
poster they and you go to doctor Square
following you can install things okay
I've not heard a bit again every is the
first I've heard of that so bp9 your
that that was like a Peter response of
you'll have to Google at bp9 whenever I
get to the point where I need to create
a Debian package I'll absolutely do that
I'm just not today I just stick my
source up on github and save me yeah I
have at it good luck with that
go for it go for it I'm battling right
is that proper solution if you want your
pre-order program to be in there for yes
put it online so they build it
themselves and and they button create
the package is based on what they're
built right well you say nine what do
you use for like I'm gonna be featuring
github on the show what are you used to
host your own git repositories literally
yeah literally a service not us not even
a service a directory on my main machine
it's you know the the serve directory
the SRV directory yeah well normally you
would have served www or serve HTTP or
something like that
well ever served it and then I create
all my mind
deep repositories under that directory
now I could easily using like a command
sure flowing out deep but on the layer
get cloned bear yeah and that's it clone
- - bear what so what you do is you
create your repo inside your normal
project directory just like you normally
would right right I'm going to do that
you end up with a dot git directory
inside your project right how's your
question but that's what I'm getting to
right so then you can do from your
project directory once you've done some
check-in so you're not missing you're
not building an empty repo you can then
do get space clone space - - be a re
space dot meaning current directory
space in my case / sr v / GI t / in them
whatever the name of the project is yet
so what that will do is it will take
interest on the current repository that
that's in my local directory yeah and it
will create a bear repository in the /
sub / get directory yeah and it's there
now right now I've got ssh enabled on
all of my machines the only way to get
to to the main machine even from even
from any other machine in my own private
network is ssh but don't do telnet i
don't enable any other services like
that yeah so because I've got SS
security enabled it's trivial at that
point you can literally you can
literally go to my laptop at that point
or I can go anywhere yeah get a space
clone space and in the name of my of my
main machine :
or colon slash slash I think or colon
slash slash SIV
slash GI t forget slash then the name of
the repo
and then it just clones to the laptop
and I'm so 100% kind of CLI man line
it's all command yeah yep
now I could as easily go off and and
install get lab on the main machine and
access it all through get lab but I'd be
doing pull requests to myself there's no
point in doing it for documentation I
keep a Doc's territory inside the
project and all our documents are calmer
document urgent in mark file Matt
markdown files I do not like putting the
documentation separate with the project
like we did lab they let you create a
wiki right but now that's separate from
the application I would rather date the
documentation in at this by the way I
also create doxygen you know Java doc
type comments in all of my code and I
can run doxygen and I'll typically
generate that to my project folder slash
Doc's slash generated and then all of
the all of the project generated
documentation doxygen stuff all goes
into that directory and they typically
check that in because you can build it
with just a makes make space doc but of
course absolutely no passwords here I do
private private public key absolutely
you know what I love about it scenario
and I'm sorry but I also use a different
port number - what the - what the
default port number is because security
through obscurity is the best kind of
security I have when I had a different
provider for the internet I did pass
through port 22 from outside of the
internet into the main machine in order
to allow me to when I go to Australia I
can still check in on my repository like
I still do my work and check the code in
within seconds literally within side
opening boom boom boom getting whacked
people are what I do
swallow anymore it all kinds of common
night and of course don't realize Oh
like I realize yeah yeah but an end user
an end user who like connects a new
device to the to the network and just
opened I think of stuff like that
everything so what I do is on my server
so I'll open yell open port 22 but then
on the server I've got CSF lfd running
and it's monitoring SSH for attempted
logins and if there's one failed login
boom IP address is blocked done
permanent okay so if you forget your
password if you accidentally file to log
in you bang your how would I do that
with my keys how would I do that with my
keys good point
yep okay because as soon as you as soon
as you open that port boom you're
getting whacked away from every country
overseas and I found that when I moved
that port number you know way up in the
address right then it the hackers didn't
even know was there because they
typically only scan the first thousand
24 ports because they're the reserved
ports the well-known port yeah and then
some only scan for the air and the port
22 because they are looking for SSH
anything
yeah I've been a bug in Lazarus yet
today basically you have a component
which you could put on this plane to
give you an input onto the box with an
input on I mean there's an option you
can make it numbers only but it doesn't
work it works at Windows but it doesn't
work in the food we gotta get this guy
on github
we gotta get this guy on github so he
can ask for help with his code
and back back to the github we're gonna
get you hooked up with that soon so you
can post these kinds of questions vp9
what I love about your setup with with
local CLI based yet is that I was
actually thinking about it yesterday
because remember I said how I found out
that Vimeo has an API so I coated it
into my system and it was brilliant
yesterday when I added the coffee break
I was just typing the description that's
how far I had gotten in and boom the the
API which is running on a cron job every
five minutes already pre-populated all
the video files so like I watched I saw
it happen before my eyes and it saved me
about ten minutes off of my oh my my
instead it was actually actually a
probably actually chose a no I'm not
gonna get to tell you bp9 no problem the
thought that hit my mind though is that
I can't push a get a clone of my website
to github because of choice j'son's I
can't okay well I wouldn't yeah did help
Oh get help I think are trying to
convince us all to host this host our
websites from there I'm not sure I
wanted no no I'm not not happening but
no I'm talking about my infrastructure
my so my site my site is a full
aggregation service right so that's not
that's never going to find its way on to
a public place one thing I would one
thing I would say about command-line get
one of the one of the tools that I like
a lot and it works on both Windows and
Linux so you'll be happy to do that is
get a I think it yeah yeah it may be a
separate package on your on your
distribution that you have to install
but I highly highly recommend that it
gives you a great visual
a representation of what the what the
repo looks like and very very clearly
describes what branch you're on that's
good history yes it is yeah
yes it is there's all a look yeah
there's all kinds of stuff we could get
into but I highly recommend it Kay and
that that is as I say a separate
typically a separate program yeah I've
only ever used git so but I'm used to
that but the thought of being able to
get clone my site locally to the server
for example and and be able to have a
versioning that's not just having to go
back and old backup I do it I recovered
I do it I do it a lot for my for my
documents I have various documents that
are all written in tech or lay tech it
is a text-based a document formatting
language Peters calling me a silly guess
oh good okay my point though we said
that's all at all easily version
controlled yeah as is the hope and I
routinely create a create the beer
repository on the server so that I can
check it out anywhere and it's it's a
wonderful way to of them to manage any
text based resource you can do you can
put binary files in there but it won't
effectively a SCORM version yeah quite
the same and what you get for doing easy
backups is a have the HC directory in it
there's a package install it on all my
systems it's got an Etsy keeper yeah
yeah and it keeps the folder yeah as I
get reposed
and I like cloned all those children on
my system do you want that itchy
directory to look the same from your
desktop to your laptop to your pointer P
or pine because saved us from
reinstalling it crashes and we have a
local copy of them because they're just
so you know you can do this with CVS as
well as get I mean I have been gonna
have to pick it up tomorrow guys hey I
hate having to cut off a great
conversation we got to call it quits
have a great afternoon everyone
thanks bp9 for all the info it's great
you're welcome no problem you guys take
care bye
