welcome to today's coffee break
everybody it's nice to have you here and
it's March 31st the final day of this
dreadful month in 2020 yay
I go moto you've got a lot of background
noise you're gonna have to deal with
that otherwise I'm gonna have to keep
your mic muted just so you know guys
how's everybody doing today what are you
eating peanuts that's your lunch yeah at
least it at least it chocolate-covered
peanuts or something like that to me too
too much sugar I know I know I know
yeah yeah I know but hey you could dream
it better than any way but I got my
coffee I like this not yet what oh yeah
I like it too it's ambiguous like you're
not not a slightest bit bang would you
like a coffee or no this is actually a
pint of beer I mean you just don't know
could be cool baby it could be is it oh
darn apart Oh how'd it when that happens
yes is that a point is it really that
much it's about two-thirds of a bank
camera
Wow
are you a phantom of the opera fan I am
I went to see Phantom of the Opera
probably ten years ago or so and that
shirt is that old and I will probably
have to get me another shirt the young
New Year's bp9 I think probably 10 years
ago okay for me it would have been well
I did some quick math 25 years ago maybe
Wow give or take
now did you get the beauty here was a
lot smaller yeah
then most theaters are so it was a
fairly I saw it come in yes that was yes
can you tell I'm a trick fan I think
that was my phone no no it wasn't was
that you sold yeah okay I was that do
your phone there beeping no it was not
my phone no no that was that was mine
getting text messages okay yeah I have
the same I hope the same alert so well
yeah I wanted I wanted to keep with the
very brief a very brief alert tone
because that's what works really well
otherwise if you get lots of messages or
they or string together they the whole
thing just plays and then plays again in
place for like 15 minutes before you can
look to see what's going on you guys
know I now want to add a touch sensor to
my door at the studio right so that it
makes that segment anyone's entering and
don't forget to use your car's interface
the LCAs
interface I don't know if it's actually
usable it's such a oh just look at this
plane just let anybody tap on it and
that would code to come up I remember
five or seven years ago a YouTube video
I think it's still up so
has designed the L course search system
on a touch sensor hanging hanging and he
had his entire library but and he could
launch a video and he the video started
playing in the L course on his TV in the
level what what would go diving on the
front door upon a book for example that
is great a basic said I is a magnetic
said select or chance or chickeny or
adorably of increases growing he was
what would they like the dog of mad
don't hurt I thought about getting a
ring video doorbell oh I probably
shouldn't have said the name sorry about
that but I'm just not sure that I want
to do it now launched it now Amazon owns
it it's okay until wise kicks in and
says yeah we're gonna be a corporate
sponsor you can talk about ring oh okay
okay what there was what how is wise
involved oh they have their own door
panels and everything now oh yeah I have
one of their little cameras for looking
at my front yard from when kids tried to
do stuff with our cars and stuff
demonstrating it on YouTube he have a
few cats and always comes he has a cat
door and I did like all the cats are
coming in but in him so he had that
achieve in his cats and there the door
recognize their the cat but then he got
a problem the cat started to become a
comment over there and a mice they just
killed
yes the 5:00 a.m. presence yeah but he
sold it by Lots if he found lots of
pictures with cats with mice in their
mouths and and inside each optimize okay
Wow and what did he do use the Raspberry
Pi for that yes
okay because the Arduino wouldn't do
that I mean I don't think it's so it's
powerful enough to be able to do image
recognition mean like an end on you I
would think but hey if you do it with a
Raspberry Pi alone so Robin you had so
Robbie you had questions about ham radio
yesterday following up on one of those
never really gotten into okay
knowledgeable what specific question or
did you have additional questions that
you wanted to learn more about was there
something we didn't tell them that you'd
like to talk about you know I think I
had any questions beyond it was an
interesting discussion okay okay really
like I like the thought of being able to
you to kind of almost steampunk ask
migrate what I would consider to be
older technology with newer technology
right so when you were talking about
being able to use a ham radio through
the internet
that's just like always like I want to
do it up like all steampunk because
that's just partials exactly that I
guess most people that have images of
ham radio think about the old spark
shits and you know the the old tube
radios that sort of thing that's not
that's not the case anymore
there you go yeah I have two of this is
Ellie actually reading your right hand
this one is a px 888 okay other one is a
can with something and they're dual band
radios is that true
Tomita and 440 yeah I think so okay so
are you guys using those handheld things
instead of the desktop guys with the
tower in the back now above the end of
164 tower I gotta know image I can I
have which is very very big which is bad
for debris flow it is very big yeah so
the answer to your question Robbie is
that you can get into ham radio at any
level you like if you want to talk long
distances like like Peter that's where
that where Peters 60-foot tower comes in
a sampling exactly and if you want to
talk local or you know I would say local
for two meter and call 40 with those
handheld radios that colby was showing
off you can do that through a thing
called a repeater most ham radio clubs
have repeaters up on top of hills where
they get gloves and coverage right and
yeah you transmit to the repeater on one
frequency and it transmits right back
out again in real time on a different
frequency typically make some killer so
to one where you're standing you want to
change you picked up the frequent
all at once now yes I think if they
beeping on first you just pick the
frequency of the repeater that you're
closest to but you can get the best
signal ooh - and then whoever's
listening on that repeater can respond
to you you can have multiple repeaters
you can contact absolutely and again as
we talked about yesterday there are some
technologies that let you connect or pay
desire between Internet to brought in
your coverage bit about ham radio is
that lost example and when war breaks
out one of the first things that often
also breaks down is a communication
Nutella telephones and Internet and and
also in the formula formula most of the
country have no power for five years
hammer area was the way that they got
access to the outside world right we had
a tornado go through a an area a fair 44
0 miles away from here
and I volunteered to two actors as part
of the emergency communication net that
were set up to help pay things like
community centers churches all those
folks who were offering aid to the local
community in the form of you know
cleaning kit
and food packages stuff like that but
they had no way to talk so talk to each
other so we placed ham radio stations at
strategic places so that they would all
be able to talk to each and they could
coordinate getting supplies from one to
the other that way yeah I remember the
news said that they did that Hurricane
Katrina devastated New Orleans yep
absolutely when Jeff and I were in radio
we had repeaters for the radio station
right so I'm pretty familiar with how
that works because here we're regulated
by the CRTC so you can only have you can
only put out so much power from each
transmitter home right so if we wanted
to go if we wanted our radio station to
be able to be accessed you know an hour
north of here we'd have to put a
repeater station up there and and so it
would just work as a it would do exactly
what you're describing with the ham
radio it would capture the signal
through the airwaves and then
rebroadcast it locally on a different
frequency it's the same system with the
ham radio there is a limit of how much
power the amplifiers can use now Robbie
you're talking about a commercial
station correct yeah I guess they were
they were half commercial half they were
a non-profit commercial station right
but the point is that you had you had
broadcasters or newscasters sitting at
the desk with a microphone and and you
know yeah let's play music and talk
shows and entertainment that sort of
stuff yeah as a ham radio or on ham
radio you don't get to play music that's
copyrighted you can't do that yeah yeah
you can't do anything obviously
criminal and you also can't yeah and you
also can not send anything that's
encrypted it has to be
yeah I think I mentioned that yesterday
so you know there's some restrictions on
what you can do say again how would you
encrypt well there are there are data
modes such as APRs or packet radio
hasn't been active for a while now but
APRs certainly is and there are digital
modes as well such as such as the D star
etc they're all digital modes they don't
encrypt but you can easily you can
easily very narrow as well everybody
never wondered well would work very well
of you don't know I haven't got could be
the day on the blade about talking about
our tty or so so now I you don t be
whether there's another one without
cutting the name of it
well they did have a no bandwidth issue
about to do bandwidth on it but they'll
are black out they go in one way they
try that yeah yeah anything else well it
worked quite well which way now a big
word slave issue in the Norwegian and
mountaintop the entree 800 just saying
although they're digital signals they're
easy to decode and easy to to display
and and yet there is no encryption
encryption no I know I saw that is that
when you have a contact with someone
that you haven't had contact me before
you have to exchange postcards to QSL
card yeah my old man has one of these
cards from the deceased previous
King Hussein over Jordan
our commander and the King of Diamonds
will never go God that both of them a
big eater my brother lives by you I
don't know can you forgive me my god did
y'all get a you know nothing well
whatever they rolls or something is fine
or something anyway I probably think
about that one never going anywhere do
or did it you know no I have not worked
anyone quite so quite so important yeah
well I would reward you Guangzhou like
you know which go enjoy our work would
want oil and a few big ones that day I
know I would absolutely Boulder the moon
when I generally would yeah it was
lovely would ready go it after that so
Robbie what you were describing
yesterday where you were thinking it
would be nice to have a single frequency
that we could just half a dozen of us
true could talk on that's in the open
sea yeah that's a commercial thing that
that you would have to purchase the
right media use and I think one see and
set up a repeater and all that that's
not cheap if they get to that gets
expensive so yeah yeah so just watch out
for that frequency range that is open
for anyone to use but the twenty seven
minutes and this is as well Family Radio
Service be wrong Family Radio so yeah
I'm there they did my phone threw up an
alert because I am down to twenty
percent battery on the phone sorry about
that
oh I forgot what I was going to say now
Oh iris you at a Family Radio Service
but it is
open as well and there are limits to how
high how powerful your transmitter can
be it can't be more than like a lot or
something so you won't get a lot of
distant chatter factor RS work as like a
like a group chat essentially can do you
have I believe it's 20 I want to say 40
channels but I'm not I'm not sure about
that one you can fit a home you can set
a tone it's called the sub audible tone
so that the radio will only work when it
hears that tone but that's not privacy
that is that isn't that's not really
privacy because anyone who sets their
tone or even um you know turns off the
tones can hear all the transmissions so
yeah don't think that's private it just
means that I've been selective about who
to love it okay well they have a word
lead boy w now here tell you about link
as well cause me a problem and W Nash
was on like Olli and I was like you to
you by the way yeah good boy W now
Joyner yeah yeah I'll have a would avoid
WX up to him we come across him again
I'm don't you a very long time
we bothers like we all design a job they
call much
yeah yeah they on that a little bit cool
whereabouts us we're about destroyed
located and me Brenda England okay Rose
one of our our Jets who take care of the
newsroom for us yes I see policy min the
credit every day yeah he's been
volunteering with the stoker for many
years very nice yeah yeah well now so
Peter do you know I'm in person I I used
to die but we go out we used to run
there : but we are I would never know
probably so I basically doubt unless I
get by
because I was reflecting a lot of my
lottery conditions and I told them that
and then we hope they'll avoid up in
actual contact we dare call that one
when you you told me to they made you
need nine at that time after that I
broke you know I needed work protector
that without on a year without you know
but it's valuable travel gallot aurélie
remember but you need to go they try the
public that I here to help of his wife
recreated a lot or not altar boy but
then I even early he'll be a well you
know hmm well I heard from him recently
like as we correspond over the newsroom
so I was talking to him about the fact
that we were moving the studio because
there was no point in him continuing
work and we we're including so so he's
been apprised all that but well guys one
of he'll have lots of news items to give
you railway news month it's been hasn't
just the safety and good health
March has been a heck of a month for
everyone and you know yeah on Saturday
and today there's new cases but it is
increasing so it is they have hope that
it is actually even maybe going down
soon
yeah and I just saw an article to you
about how they discovered the the
infection mechanism guys we got to close
down our coffee break for today have a
wonderful afternoon
continue continue the conversation if
you like over in our discord server I
just really really quickly we have 43
minutes left to our Kickstarter campaign
so this is our final push
so let people know on social media
what's going on
and let's see how how far we can push
this thing in the next 40 40 minutes or
so so have a great day everyone and I
will see you again tomorrow yeah it's
probably yeah bye bye HS fight
