morning welcome to community coffee
break he is Tuesday 28th of April 2020
and welcome to I see so boobie so give
me a wave sober I see egg a motor and I
see boat and AH this mush man good
morning class misty must be running
Windows that's all I can say yeah and I
saw Robbie trying to get in but I don't
see him getting so alright and of course
I'm bp9 good morning so ok sorry to
interrupt the conversation but carry on
yeah yes sir who called me 89 you don't
need to be on Windows to do this really
yep you can using heaven on Linux yep
Wow now finally I could get my camera to
work good morning Robbie hey guys I'm
already done the intro we've already
started so I tried to pull it off too we
just we just have a kind of a miserable
little desktop PC here and I set up the
LifeCam but the PC wouldn't take it ok I
don't know how expensive the tickets
were I have a crusty old webcam I really
need to just get me a new webcam maybe
it worked better on Linux but none of my
machines would would accept the webcam
so literally the lights were on but
nobody was home so the light lit up on
the on the webcam but it wouldn't
actually relate to Zane so I plug this
one in and it didn't do a thing but it's
like a it's a USB 2 webcam obviously in
the system's too old
[Music]
but Marsh man your setup yeah you won
the house yet I'm socially distinct wait
till wait till subbu works that walks up
and tries to sit in your chair then
you'll be in all kinds of drug that must
be on a recording loop or something is
what that is soul boo should also change
to that background oh that would just be
too weird that would be to freak out
everybody more Raymond Robbie is that
what you is that what you're eating me
up
cheap Oh convenient I did get kimchi
flavor oh yes genuine article we have an
Asian grocery store Oh give me some of
that
don't be hungry for that now it's real
good
it's real I mentioned it before though I
need to get some chopsticks for at the
office well how do you drink the broth
if you use the chopsticks to wheedle my
noodles
well you just oh you wait till the end
here exactly I'm actually eating soup
chopsticks they have they have something
in the soup and they manage to eat of
the entire scripture you know using the
other ingredients already in the bowl
fascinating to watch dexterity than I
have I mean we have ramen spoons at home
which are just there they're part of the
culture that they're a little bit wider
/ and and you eat it with that and a
pair of chopsticks mm-hmm but here it
works I got to just drink it from the
ball to go do what you got to do right
in fact and in fact though what's the
size of that ball anybody chopsticks and
she was sitting there for 10 minutes
trying to eat at the chef's had enough
and he came to her and he said Sutton is
teaching if I sit down in an Asian
restaurant and they don't serve me
chopsticks I'm like excuse me I have no
trouble with the with the you know
larger pieces of food with chopsticks
but can't do it with broth but you know
you sit down and watch actual Chinese
people eat and they they almost
literally just shovel it in so yeah they
almost literally just do that with it
with a bowl so they want to eat that's
right
nothing wrong with that yep absolutely
it also helps if at least two of the
edges are flat and if the restaurant
actually knows how to prepare rice
properly which is stick true yeah
getting sticky rice from you know here's
another is another you know you just got
to make it yourself
well but that's one of my tests of
restaurants around here with the rice
isn't sticky they don't know how to cook
it yeah
I know a special mention a special
mention to mini Marsh I saw I saw her
pop up while yeah while we were chatting
so hello around she she knows she she's
disappeared already but I got a way bein
so that's kind of acknowledge them when
I see them don't you know what was your
question Robbie I'm sorry go ahead sir
did you're running the show
oh no you you run away oh yeah I'm
enjoying this oh good yeah it's must've
been the back seat for it oh great yeah
what someone else be driving right I you
go into your zoom account and into your
cell virtual background setting and you
can add you can add a picture or a video
account that's true but according to
Robbie you can actually get a you can
create a zoom account for free yeah
things are limited to like 40 minutes
post only if you're the host yeah yeah I
understand
yeah but can I still do the background
even on a free account yeah absolutely
okay nice well it still requires that I
actually have a working webcam after all
that so yeah I did download the latest
version of zoom from their website and
got it to run on the Linux box I was
just couldn't get the young I couldn't
get the young Wow let's see the whole
lock we know once I turn on the noise
canceling hits it's making friends I
kept wondering what is all that noise so
we're fine time I haven't haven't got it
yet have you got your shipping
notification
Robbie not at all no okay no nothing
well they sent me a really long shipping
them 15 digits long and said it's being
shipped by 17 track well I have no idea
who's 17 Trekkies and so i into that
shipping number into their website so i
don't know anything about the shipping
number good luck with that
we'll just have to wait and see won't we
but I did have a bit of a look yesterday
at one of the things that I realized was
you know I figured out how to how to how
to display all of the tick marks and I
figured out how to display all of the
clock window the clock hands where they
will need to be at each point in there
in in the time frame but I haven't
figured out how to actually write text
to the display yet so I've been no need
tell me you don't have to figure out the
pixels for every character I don't think
so but I don't know I mean it would be
trivial for me to do it on on the
program that I demonstrated a while ago
that's got nothing to do with the phone
time that is just a test workbench to
prove that the arrays that I built the
arrays that I built actually work the
program still has to or the pine time
application still has to figure out how
to how to draw that text because from
what I could tell from the photos the
picture that that had the clock face on
it does not show any numerix on the on
the clock face at all I think they were
relying on the background to do that but
the background was all wind wonky I
don't know why the on the pine phone
there's an app called amazed fish and
it's a watch companion app or sailfish
OS which works on the pine foam
so that allows you're watching your
phone to talk to each other when you say
works on the pine phone are you saying
it's a separate effort you installed on
the pine phone right yeah it's a
separate app you install on sailfish OS
okay okay sailfish OS doesn't run on the
point I'm though no but I'm trying to
figure it is any component there's any
component of that actually do you take
any component of that and install it on
the pine time or no you still have to
write something for the point I'm I'm
sure that well let's see I don't know
exactly how the communication happens I
mean it happens over bluetooth obviously
but but I'm not sure what types of
messages are relayed between the two I
guess what I'm trying to understand
these the piece you're describing is
designed to run on the pine phone
correct right but nothing of that I'm
what I'm trying to understand is if any
part of that is supposed to be installed
on the pine time well I think if you're
writing your own pine time OS you would
have to process the messages that that
amazing fish would be sending to the
pine time for my for my initial attempt
I'm not planning to do any Bluetooth
communication or anything like that the
way I've described it before is that my
plan would be to once I've got the watch
face up and running it would display
some default time typically the time it
was compiled and then you have to get e
to another screen like a setting screen
to adjust the time once it's adjusted
and you've updated the the real time
clock the so called real time clock in
the in the pine term itself then the
pine time should just keep running
whether it whether the screen is on or
not the phone time should just keep
running and it should just keep track at
the time at that point without any
further intervention so it just kept you
say again I just count Jeffy's wouldn't
it just count the number Jeff uses no
differencing there is actually a clock a
effectively a crystal but a device it's
not really a real-time clock though it
is actually just a ticker something that
ticks literally every thirty two
thousand thirty two thousand times every
second or something and once you set the
time in that device these a separate
real-time clock device why don't you set
that device then once you set the time
in that device then it will carry on at
that point at that point but until then
it does not until then it uses some
default whether it be all zeros or
whether you whether you set it up at at
start off time with a default but the
times gonna be wrong until until it's
adjusted once it's adjusted
it'll keep running until the battery
dies once the battery dies and that all
stops then you've got a starter the
library on the old devices are just
counted a jiffy is from the last sink
and just went from there well that takes
CPU cycles this thing is separate from
the CPU this device this ticker is
different from the CPU as is the
accelerometer as is the touch
touchscreen there's all kinds of devices
hanging off the CPU that that that you
can control through the I think it's the
is IC squared or something it's a serial
interface but but I hope not I don't
know I don't know all about that stuff
yet that's part of the thing you learn
when you first start messing with so
much you could pick up reading the
documentation and looking at examples
I'm amazed how much you already know
about it what I think I know is what I
should say
no one
because I'm gonna get it and everything
you've told me is wrong everything work
then you have a new feature for
absolutely sure we should talk about
that Robbie I mean I would be happy to
to do us a series or a monthly short
things about what I learned from this
from the bill without smiling of
notifications earlier I received
notifications that my own droid see fors
have left Incheon Oh wonderful have
little anyway enjoyed from South Korea
oh okay okay okay
well I'm sure seventeen track would tell
me the same thing you're coming DHL and
DHL is funny because it looks like they
get hung up and then you get on the next
day to track it and then it's like
fifteen updates doorbells ringing
my original pine book came with via DHL
so I'm kind of surprised they didn't
ship DHL because it was a it's coming to
exactly the same address yes oh maybe it
can take the HL but the tracking number
the tracking number wasn't valid for DHL
I knew it wasn't a UPS tracking number
or a FedEx tracking number so I don't
know who is I don't know who the carrier
is welcome I got I got the notification
from DHL I'll keep an eye out let's see
what the first when I got internet
access in 98 was a page called DLH page
where I think it was it had hints and
cheat codes for games and so on I used
up three or four years I still have some
of the cheat codes that I don't know
I've discovered that even the cheat
codes that help me because I suck at
playing games so do you have any any ETA
on the new board what do you guys this
is something we've assembled for a
customer and Robbie's neighborhood it is
a Odroid h2 with a 10 gigabit
10 gigabit ethernet but this guy can
transmit it we've got over eight
gigabits a second in actual real world
stuff Wow what on earth is it logging at
that right it's a test rig actually Wow
that takes us beyond the realm of like
data servers that's crazy yeah I saw
and not sure if I mentioned this this
but a week or two ago I saw on an image
someone post posted of the very first
sweet router traffic on the Internet
it was a meter high and too early for
video game zombie right a video the base
we we designed and printed on our 3d
printers here holds everything solid and
compact but the yeah actually pint 64
has dropped hints that they might be
thinking about building a router based
on a rock pro 64 so basically an open
source router that Union I think you're
with yourself how would they how would
that defer to an open source destroyed
like dd-wrt you there was one other that
you mentioned probably wasn't it well I
use micro tech but but I'm thinking vp9
the difference is going to be that this
is a full Linux machine and I did that
20 years ago I put two network cards in
a PC mono ah yep literally all you did
is you booted it off a floppy two
network cards one came in from your
internet provider the other went out to
your to the rest of your network and
that was your that was your router slash
firewall
a friend of mine was his job was going
to retire a multi-service Avenue server
so my friend asked if he could they take
ticket when occurred when I got home he
was a little disappointed but I think
that he should have taken the hint one
when one of the items on the front of
the one you serve it was a floppy drive
he thinks that the machine is from the
late nineteen nineties but I'm just
thinking compared to the ones today it's
like true you're right you're right
they might get one flock a second or
something but I still have an old 300
baud modem from Australia somewhere so
oh my god oh yeah and the model 100 I
showed off a while ago a few weeks ago a
couple of weeks ago has a 300 baud modem
built in it doesn't do or some sort of
thing that could plug in the telephone
cord yeah that's correct that's exactly
if they actually used one of those as a
quote junior reporter in high school and
stuff like that it was my old typewriter
yep a lot of reporters used them they're
very very good for that sorry for
getting copied Beth to the to the home
base that's what I'm talking about right
[Laughter]
maybe this plane tickets will be cheap
enough
who needs a plane ticket I got a plane
guys want to hear what I discovered
today well not today yesterday last
night okay last night I discovered Vimeo
has an API okay for you well what
happens is is that every week when I do
the show and any time we do coffee break
or whatever
I caught I log in to Vimeo and I copied
the links to the files and then I put
them in my MySQL my Maria DB server and
then our website parses everything and
our transcoders go through all the files
and everything but having done the show
on Wednesday and having published it on
Monday I realized that the website was
still only showing up to 1080p so I
thought oh I'd like to add the 1440p
feature as well 2k video and so I went
into the law logged into the backend of
Vimeo and the highest resolution in the
backend is 1080p so I did a quick step
up bad well not bad but not 2k I know
but I'm thinking of all the countries
and stuff with metered access and all
the other stuff where it is easy to
stream it well we stream in HLS so it'll
automatically clock down okay but but as
far as the direct downloads because if
you go to any episode of category 5 even
the coffee break you can you can click
on the download button and download it
to your hard drive so it makes sense to
have the highest rebel but so I did a
quick search and turns out they do store
the 1440p files but they don't make them
publicly accessible on the on the
dashboard you have to be a developer
they say so I guess they're like weeding
out so they're testing yeah they're like
testing whether you're good enough to
have access to the big files so so I
took a look at that last night and sure
enough I already wrote the program to do
in PHP didn't yeah
and it runs great so it goes through my
database and it finds all the missing
all the missing files that Vimeo has
that our database doesn't have in it
automatically so I'm going to be testing
that over the next couple of days
it's gonna run through our database and
we re download all of the files and then
you're gonna run that at your at the
studio right where you have a nice thick
oh no no no I have a I have a 100 over
100 fiber line at the colocation
facility that's donated to us Wow which
which has always been you know it's like
I wish I could have that at Studio yeah
no it's colocation so that's where our
actual server and our backups are so
mm-hmm so when you're watching the show
live you're streaming it from that
colocation facility I always wondered
about that have had the video especially
with the high volume folks like do you
know Netflix and an Amazon Prime and all
that how they split the video and split
it and split it so it can be shared that
way with that huge Amanda Network
latency I mean I wouldn't even know
where to start with something like that
it's twofold it's between HLS for the
for the bandwidth control so that's what
makes it so that it will automatically
change the bitrate
yep so that's HLS and then the second
factor is nimble streamer and nimble
streamer is what allows us to do YouTube
Facebook Roku all simultaneously but I'm
on I'm only sending a single feed to the
nimble streamer serve noise and then
they want about the virtual machines for
each format well essentially I mean it's
it's it splits it up into separate feeds
to all the different supported platforms
so
it sends it to them in HLS formats at
some point though you still literally
have thousands if not tens of thousands
of people downloading this video or
watching it on the fly and at some point
all that has to be split up into
thousands or tens of thousands of
individual feeds for each of those each
of those devices yep both my mind I mean
yeah just it's really cool pretty neat
stuff well guys I didn't even really I
didn't even have to really do much today
so thanks you know looking forward to
tomorrow cuz I'm gonna I'm gonna figure
out how I'm gonna do a show from the
studio live as well as possible so
working on that in the back of my mind
and working on all the other tech stuff
that I'm trying to get sorted and
waiting for shipments my couplers
already arrived for the HDMI cables so
I'll try those tomorrow so but that's
all the time I have for today these all
the boss you need a personal day because
I thought yeah I would like a personal
week I can imagine
you guys have a great afternoon I'll see
you tomorrow at a coffee break and then
that don't forget the show is also
tomorrow at the regular time
