[Music]
hey guys welcome welcome to our coffee
break hey got my copy today is Friday
the 24th of April since you forgot to
say ah yes so people can be like when is
now absolutely we're gonna lose track
completely one of the things I realized
when I had to do when I had to do the
intro I don't know a couple of weeks ago
I think it was it's hard you know I know
wina be preparing for the show or
preparing for coffee coffee break hmm
usually by the time yeah usually by the
time we're live we've already done it
four times because technical
difficulties made it something worked we
call those our practice runs got it I
see okay not a problem and I you know I
should realize of course but I didn't
realize I've done presentations before
but only usually rehearsed them once or
twice in my head I don't usually stand
up and do a full-blown reversal oh yes
but when it comes to go time when it
comes to okay now now's the time we've
got to get it right it's you know
trained correctly and all I think you're
gonna see that if you look back at old
episodes of category-five to where like
we had to come into our own and then it
it suddenly clicks and you because
you've been doing it every single week
for 13 years you're able to think much
more on the fly and able to pick up I
think also when you stumble over your
words but not that you did obviously not
what I mean is thinking along the terms
of it's hard you you learn as you
stumble over your words how to recover
from that in a way that makes sense to
the conversation yeah so you know and
there's no crutch terms like pardon me I
meant to say and you know those kinds of
things you
here yeah and I've seen it happen where
you will or Sasha or RAM or Jeff will do
a news item or so and I want to don't
want to come back to that too because I
never did find Jeff on the on the
broadcast when I looked at the produced
version I saw him do the news I saw him
being a news but I didn't know if he was
supposed to make an appearance earlier
on you know during the interviews and
stuff and I didn't know if that's what
you all were talking about sorry oh okay
no I'm go back and look again when we
aired the show live I wasn't able pardon
me I wasn't able to get them on with
zoom okay
so the intention was to have an
interactive newsroom as we normally do
but socially distant using zoom didn't
work out that way so I had to have them
after afterward they they recorded I
guess they pre-recorded their segments
and then sent them to me so then I post
edited them in and that's because I
couldn't get it I couldn't get
everything connected in time to make it
work so what I've done I've created two
Linux Mint virtual machines on my
hypervisor and well I created one and
then I cloned it so but and so what it
is is it's it's Linux Mint with matei
desktop and the only app that's
installed is zoom ok so then I've got it
set so that each one is you know so
we've got zoom one zoom two and so I can
open zoom one and connect to the
discussion the zoom meeting and pin
Jeff's video mm-hmm press record then
over on zoom to I do the same bring up
zoom connect to the meeting pin Henri's
video and press record so now so now I
have two recordings happening on two
virtual machines basically hacking zoom
in such a way that it allows me to
record two isolated video shots and then
our cameras will be recording me in an
isolated video shot so then post Pro set
so live you'd see a normal zoom
we're transitions every time someone
talks but on demand it will be edited
together in a much nicer way I think
that'll work
I remember when I first found cap five I
haven't done a few of the older episodes
including a season one and I noticed
they're quite quickly that you were in
the first season at least in the earlier
you were quite occupied by a into
interacting with the chat room and
you're constantly asking for how do you
think that feedback seemed like that
process but that's true even now the
only difference is Robbie let turn
you've got people to help you with that
now because those early seasons because
when category 5 started remember it was
not meant to be a TV show it was meant
to be support form so like a free place
for people to come and ask questions
about their computers and stuff so if
people didn't ask questions I just kind
of rocked yeah nothing my chair yeah
then that started but then that started
to evolve into okay well we didn't get
enough questions this week so maybe I
should have something prepared as you
know time filler and then all of a
sudden and then when Kerri joined of
course every man in the world started
watching and suddenly the show took off
[Laughter]
have a female host that looks like in it
and I make her you should be safe yeah I
feel like my coffee cup is like like
maybe if I if I do this often enough
maybe they'll start sending me money or
free coffee or something
you think they do that on purpose a
maybe importance would just get the
clear advertising no I want good coffee
so hey Starbucks you watching product
placement
good job well done your work on that now
better than product placement yes I've
heard his paid product placement that's
what I've been told by my colleagues I
mean you're odd I could type a to the
company page to put on your show to get
the visibility today I paid to put this
coffee in my belly and it just happens
that they've strategically designed
their cups for the companies to use the
DCMA to start charging you for any logo
that appears in your video whether it's
no I should have the other way around
come on yes exactly because there are
billions of people watching our little
daily chat for the placements in their
TV shows and movies it was in the late
90s when I watched a documentary on the
history / advertisements from the paper
press and TV and after they they told
how that was done for a long time I
couldn't help but suddenly I saw all the
product placement I did yeah oh yeah I
saw the sign you look at all Sibley's
and ID's maybe we know it's really
blatant that what you know and all the
cartoons all the cartoons that we grew
up with we're just basically like
zellers commercials and my name's Jimmy
what is that cigarette you're smoking
there over I'm thinking more like every
he-man action figure and every you know
she run oh yeah any any of the toys that
we grow up with transformers was another
one it's like the whole idea behind the
show was strictly to sell product and
it's and that's all
see and it worked that's unheard of that
chippy I do our Ranger saw it by the
time we moved back to the stay out in
the eighties I refused to watch in you
know speaking of product placement
pipette we have an unboxing we have to
go get a cat save it for you I should
say I know that you who are watching on
demand are probably already becoming
fairly familiar with our community
members but soul boos at the top left
vp9
the top right Peter on the bottom left
and agamotto
on the bottom right and of course I'm
Robbie yeah let's see what post sent me
he said so I ordered a pine 64 module
and a couple other goodies but the real
question is oh yes this is all I care
about boys yes I was thinking about
these the other day because they do
let's see what do they make yeah they
have gelatin in them because like these
days you got a like there's so many
Egan's yes sugar right this also got
gelatin which is pig right so I'm
guessing that I'm missing the first
ingredient sugar what we're doing yeah
yeah we don't need to get into the gory
details I'm just saying that I'm just
saying that like because my wife is
vegan right so I love this kind of stuff
I get to have it
glucose is the number one ingredient
sugar is the second verse half oh okay
glucose is just sugar anyway so okay
yeah main line all right what do we got
okay this is cool
can you guys see oh oh
look at that M's nems a cache for your
case
yeah I'm guessing no sugar yeah it could
have been a herb aced print Wow no I
need to
I wish beau was here I need to ask him
where the case came from
he showed us one of those because he was
when you were talking about names on an
earlier coffee break
he's showing us one of those he had one
on the shelf yeah no I remember I
remember seeing it but so this must be
because I I guess I had thought that
maybe he 3d printed it but this is not
this is like a really good quality like
there's an that's not a 3d print that's
a great great now instead of sticker on
the Zemin sticker on there something is
that been printed on emboss looks like
it's a yeah it's a it's like a vinyl
sticker so it may well be that that it's
already a previously available product
that case and you just put rail on it
for you yes on there's a clear one too
Oh like clear what say we gigs like to
see the innards of oh yes absolutely
yeah oh nice these are these are from Bo
so I'm gonna I wish he was here to say
thank you oh cool
gonna have to send each of you as an M
sticker all right now I'm getting into
my order okay
oh sweet okay so I got a biscuit which
is like a nine axis gyro I guess you
call it it's like a sensor so I don't
create circuits too and these are really
nice because they've got the Arduino
built right into it you don't have to
have like a whole bunch of parts it's
all just one circuit board one little
tiny one-by-one circuit board and
they're super cheap compared to doing
the Arduino components yourself before
you prove the Box I was imagining
another cookie
yeah in Australia in England we call
biscuits what yeah yeah when you see
biscuit sorry to dissapoint guys yeah or
or or similar a sensor a 64 module for
my pine 64 cluster board not a memory
module touch ticket that won't work I
planned her battery a lipo yeah so that
takes me to let's see here must be in
here must be here box within a box
oh no it's taped I don't have box
cutters in the lunchroom there we go
there see this always keep a Leatherman
around oh sweet though oh you know what
I do have is this power module with
Wi-Fi mm-hmm
and the module what is a power module
need Wi-Fi are you ready for this bp9
almost has like you because this
particular power module is app
compatible so you can monitor and
control the voltage from within your
phone's app so I can either I can over
bought my um I can over bought my power
supply just for greens if you want to
self-destruct the unit this is like
nothing good or change the voltage for
whatever you're plugging into why would
you want to do that at runtime not at
one you don't need to necessarily do it
at runtime but isn't it nice that you
can see and I haven't even plugged it in
yet man I don't know all the features
yet I can't wait to play you can see
yeah you can monitor everything on it so
you can monitor like the power the
voltage everything like the dry suppose
so you can do a lot of stuff that you'd
normally have to use your volt meter for
or like some kind of inline device to be
able to monitor but you do it from your
phone
I'm just cool too long it has your
lightning strikes and then you've got to
replace Oh suddenly your app jumps up to
four million and then dies then it has
an LCD screen that plugs into it too so
this goes on top and that gives you a
readout as well so that'll be fun
that'll be something I'll show on the
show yeah I got a piece of plexi which
must have something to do with that it's
about the same size so it must have
something to do with that board hmm okay
there's a there's a double sided tape
all of mecha blackboard maybe a Josh to
do some here just a supporting or like a
stand to like this out yes Jamie but I
got nice to use it at telling just to
nice to use as a stands though yeah
anyway we got some stuff to play with
I got some stuff to play with and stuff
to nibble on is that I just so you know
I told Sol boo in discord I'm gonna get
him a shirt that says that reminds me of
a video I saw a big day was having some
kind of party the box was one meter by
one meter the entire box she used half
an hour to unpack it and inside all of
that packaging was something I like is
what you just occurred in and it's
handsome well I've got a Christmas
present for my brother one day it was
you know it was in a box that was not
quite as big as than later by a meter
but he opened the box then he unwrapped
the first layer of newspaper and read
the next layer of newspaper it went
about I think there was something like
20 layers of newspapers they don't need
which keep on wrapping and unwrapping
and there was a lump of coal these books
had that he had he had a counter in the
open called the corner counting how many
layers it was closing 130 when she got
to the final somebody has way too much
time on there the best my parents ever
did was like put in a box of macaroni
and with it or something so that you'd
shake it and you'd be like what is this
but then it always leads to
disappointment doesn't get through that
and get a block a call never a brick you
know they're my favorite too they're my
favorite prisoners to put in a window
when they're bad now did I tell you guys
at all about I know I demonstrated the
clock face on the on the primetime but I
trying to remember whether I went
through the mess with you you know the
mathematics or for figuring out where
that where that our hand should be
because remember I said the our hand
needs to move incrementally I'm yeah I'm
not sure how how it wasn't it every five
minutes you said did it that was the
plan but no ended up doing so if you
follow this the minute hand around every
time it every time it clicks by the men
that would be 60 times for every hour
right so 60 minutes in every hour and a
half there bp9 yeah in this 12
twelve hours in in one rotation of the
our hand right multiplied the two you
get 720 divide that in half you get 360
there's 360 degrees in the whole thing
somehow and I haven't I haven't
completely rehearsed it in my head so I
can't explain it completely but it
worked out somehow that the hour hand
updates every two minutes so the
position of the hour hand changes every
two minutes more often than that I think
I've got wow someone's making an oh yeah
bows here you always is the grand
entrance bow I just thought it was
somebody with a girdle I don't want to
get sidetracked but bow before before
just letting you know that I got the box
of goodies so we'll talk about you'll
watch after time sorry carry on just a
very very quick comment that was with
720 possible possible opportunities to
update the arrow hand the resolution at
200 by 200 just isn't enough to update
more than every two minutes or so and I
think that was the reason why every two
minutes at updates that were it doesn't
receive that and the way I did it in
order to save memory in the in the
actual pine tome itself was to actually
have three arrays one for the hour hand
for all 720 possible positions one for
the minute hand for well for 60
positions 6-0 60 positions one for the
second hand for the same 60 positions
because the they have separate arrays
for each one because each of the
clockface hands are all all different
lengths so they all fall on different XY
coordinates as they go around but as
they go around the clock base but yeah
actually
my skills main screens I were on a
discrete on my machine it's a digital
and local clock and I'm watching it as
you are describing and so and it's
updating and the mediator is operating
60 times a minute the minute hand is
updating 60 times a minute
yes is that what you should yes so so
that means the minute hand is
incrementally moving between the tick
marks then yes okay yeah I didn't go to
that level of detail now with with so
booze screen that what probably a 1k
screen or something right - anybody know
it's like every 1080 by 1920 four or
something you're gonna notice every
single little you know incremental move
but at 200 by 200 which is what I
believe the resolution is you're just
not going to notice that little movement
it's just not gonna you're just not
gonna see it so there's no point trying
to track you can ask your questions
about it yeah well now the bow is here
we can ask him questions so both vp9 had
probably the first question which was
what so and I did my best to answer but
bow you answer better so the the power
module what is the biggest purpose of
having app access to that power module
well there's two main reasons one is to
be able to remotely turn off and turn on
your devices that are plugged into it
nice perfect so that's lit let's say
that something gets into a into a lock
state or something like that and you're
not there to troubleshoot it just reboot
it yeah that's great
normally that would be something that
you'd have to buy like a server rack
unit or something they're like idrac
called my server for example right
another reason you'd want app access to
it is to monitor power usage so
if you're trying to do something that's
little power or or maybe you're trying
to manage heat you can see what's what's
pulling power at what times using the
the history of the power utilization oh
that's cool
nosh Rubick knowledge now Robbie thought
that you could change the output work
together programmatically is that is
that true we'll know me because I
explaining I was explaining to rub me
that that would be a great way to to
cook your device you know just keep
incrementally increasing voltage and
presumably that unit is powered
separately from your from your rock crow
or whatever it is that you connected it
it would be the power supply for it yeah
connected you wouldn't use this for a
rock Pro because it's a rock goes 12
volts and this is a 5 volt power supply
oh this is 5 volts okay okay anything
that's 5 volt this can you just can run
that up to I forget how many amps 5 amps
I think yeah you can adjust the output
from 4 volts to 5 point 3 volts DC and
then T and bsp they can can handle that
without any problem right well 4 volts
is gonna be kinda iffy for a lot of
SPC's but 5.3 is fine yep yep so
somewhere bullet between 4 &amp; 5 is where
most SBC's are are gonna start working
well so a heck I can't get in and fry
your wrist bc by cranking up the voltage
thing right not if it's a 5 volt SBC
okay nice
now you say Robbie is
it's the power supply for the SBC is it
plugged up like a shield or no or a hat
connect it does have some standoff holes
but it doesn't bow does this match up
with any SBC it doesn't it doesn't look
it's not a P hat that's for sure but
this is a no Droid board no it's it just
but you can create a standoff or build
it into a case and if it had some
sticker on the back so I could build it
into something if I wanted to yeah it's
a standalone unit and you need to have
you need to cut off the end of a power
supply or something to to wired into
that okay this is the input then I just
opened it is where you plug into the
wall and then that green connector is
where you connect your SPC's power
supply a power cable into you oh okay so
that this power is providing power to
the Wi-Fi module and the system itself
no no that's unite power what you just
pointed to is the input that barrel
connector if I understand boat correctly
that barrel connector is where you plug
the war war into yep the device right
that's that powers the device then the
green block then the green block is the
output of this device that you feed
power to your SBC to it from that block
is that right Bo yeah that's right okay
so then so then I ask okay so we've got
USB a and we're SB micro yeah the USB a
is power up to be lighter or oh it's
waynebow okay so five you go one amp
yeah you can do both at the same time
okay cool and the the micro USB
connection I believe is for connecting
directly to a computer that you want to
have control this oh cool
or you can do it via Wi-Fi yeah nice
cool I'm looking forward to that very
cool very nice cool okay so what you're
gonna do now is figure out how to
remotely reboot your machine your SPC
yeah you've got to connect to it somehow
is it so we really yeah
is that food we're in there Sara like
yep yeah there's a firmware in there but
you can SSH into or whatever you need to
do right so I believe there's an app for
hmm that you can use to communicate with
it and via the plan via someone else a
computer right some reason that Mara
picturing in my head there so on there
is a shading into the post player
interface for the heck is - hey come on
I got a micro tech just make sure you
fire will let puppy off Robbie make sure
you're real good I sure will I sure well
I just like all my other devices it's
been fun once again I got a jet it's
been fun having a coffee break with use
again today good to see each and every
one of you and I will see you again
tomorrow
