fact is while I try to do my part by
recycling and making sure that my
e-waste is properly disposed of there
are industrial companies that pour so
much pollution into the environment that
it really starts to feel like well is my
individual effort actually making a
difference well someone really needs
we've had this discussion before Sasha
like who can step up and make a
difference who can actually help those
companies to be able to reduce their
footprint and in fact ship and Shore
environmental incorporated is here with
us tonight and they're dealing
specifically with those environmental
issues on a grander scale using
sophisticated technology to help
industrial customers so not us
individuals but the big businesses to be
able to control and reduce and even
offset their air pollution Anusha a SKU
ioan is the CEO of ship and Shore
Anusha thank you so much for joining us
this week it's a great pleasure to be
here with you thank you for the
opportunity a new ship before we speak
about the technology and how your
company is combating pollution at the
industrial level I'd really like our
viewers to have the opportunity to get
to know you on a personal level
especially at this time I mean stem stem
education is something that's very
prominent today and it's not just boys
who are growing up with a passion for
engineering and being encouraged to
pursue it as well but you got started at
a very different time and I imagine that
that led to some challenges so I'd ask
what inspired you to get into the
engineering field and pushed you to see
it through despite cultural opposition
to give you a myself I came to this
country at a very young age and always
with the hope and the dream of living in
America and doing what I love doing and
making a new life
and as daring as it was before the
revolution took place in Iran I decided
to leave and convinced my parents to
send me away I always was often sciences
but my interest in chemistry as well as
getting into a field where there were
not very many women involved was was of
interest it was a different time and
when I was going to school everyone was
like what would you want to do with this
what are you gonna take this mm-hmm a
lot of questions that I didn't even know
how to answer but I trusted my instincts
of following my passion for chemistry
and eventually led me to become a
chemical engineer and I always had my
heart set on wanting to do something to
make a difference and is this something
that you've always wanted to do if I was
to say I always wanted to be a chemical
engineer it's probably not correct my
interesting chemistry was there due to
an amazing teacher I had at a very young
age just like everyone in life you have
one hero that you it just changes your
life and your path or where you want to
go but I always had a sense of
entrepreneurial about what I wanted to
do and I believed in doing things that
would be different that what a woman and
a girl is supposed to do getting into
fields of studies that is very typical
wasn't what I had in mind
did I want to do what I do right now
I wouldn't remove anything else right
now but I was think on the scientific
path and saying all wanting to make a
difference I think was always something
I had him also teachers listen up you
can make a world of difference in a
young life
Anusha coming from a background such as
yours being born in Iran
would women have ever even thought about
pursuing this field I believe before the
revolution since the country was very
westernized and quite advanced in many
fields of studies of women were very
involved with with everyday life and
booming what the country was about I
would have been very possible but I was
lucky enough to leave before the
Revolution and not for what the dreams I
had if I would have stayed there it
definitely would not have been possible
if I would have stayed there at most I
could have perhaps to pursue my
education but just work for a company or
or make the best of my degree but to
what I've made it to be now I think it
would have been him we lost you there
sorry you just just cut out there sorry
if you just back up just about a 10
seconds sorry about that folks
I was just mentioning that even in this
country what I am and what I do yes is
not a very typical of what a woman would
do with the education that I have and
I've had I've had quite a bit of
challenge to make sure that we stay on
path and continue with the company as I
do
we're seeing a lot of change these days
but like back when you were getting
started what was really the biggest
challenge that you faced Tanisha getting
started just working as a woman in the
chemical engineering field at one point
of time when I was hired on a major APC
company they simply wanted to meet their
quota of having enough women on board we
I won mention names and not knowing and
definitely management positions were not
as readily available to the women there
were chemical engineers and advancing
within a company was was not as as
easily as it is achieved nowadays and
I'm so happy to see so many women
powerhouses and CEOs and CFOs in many
fields so getting started was was quite
challenging and I definitely had enough
challenges as a CEO of my company our
company here to walk into offices and
introduce myself as one and they would
if I did not introduce myself
we always think I would be engineering
secretary that came along with a bunch
of oh no so you have a good sense of
humor about that it seems so you kind of
put them in their place I do I studied
you have a minute I could tell you a
company that you walked into did not
have titles on our business cards I
walked in with number of our engineers
of a big presentation and so they
invited us to go and I was the only
woman and the second
the front office showed me where the
coffee was and if I wanted to get coffee
for all the guys that were there and get
ourselves to AJ ownership comfortable
and we said nothing number of guys were
with us and what I did was I I went
along and once the clients walked in
they would totally ignore looking me in
the face and we're talking to the guys
ask me everybody to make their
introduction yeah and they did I went
last so once I introduced myself hold on
that I was CEO of the company let's
really jaws drop and I it's it's it's a
moment that I always keep limit in my
mind but I wish I had my iPhone back
there's a new shell bet that they have
not forgotten that moment either here
you are I mean you're the CEO of the
company how did you get from where you
were to here like everyone else hard
work passion for what you want to do
seizing opportunities making sure you
stay true to your own inner voice and
doing what you really feel like it's the
right thing to do and and I should
always definitely thank my stars lining
up to where I was thanking all the
various people and elements in life that
that made me the opportunity it's it was
challenging like I said at the beginning
once we even started the company with me
at the helm of the company but but over
time I think just saying just stay true
to do what I wanted to do was was was
was quite important mm-hmm and yet you
kind of set it in order it's you got to
be hard-working you got to dedicate
yourself and then
and the opportunities present themselves
a new show before we get into learning
about the actual technology of course
we're a technology show so we're going
to get there folks we want to learn
about that Tech and how you're using it
to help big businesses combat pollution
that's what this is about but do you
have any advice I mean it's not just for
young people but in particular young
women because we are in a time when like
young girls are now being able to come
into engineering and be encouraged to do
so and it's an exciting time but for
those kids who are looking at in
engineering and other fields like this
what what advice can you give them to
truly not let anyone or anything get in
their way of wanting to study a
particular subject doing the right thing
going after what their passion is most
often even when I was growing up I was
being told well you know girls can't do
that yeah girls can't do this it even
even nowadays we find ourselves limiting
girls from certain things compared to
boys so my advice has always been and I
do go around from universities and high
schools whatever opportunity arises to
encourage girls to go to scientific
fields to go to the engineering school
and and look at it as a career because
God knows we have enough girls that are
in the fashion world we have enough
girls that are into what girls are
supposed to be and we definitely like
the brainy ones to come into the
engineering field and really be the
makers of what the future will be and
will hold I and I'm really happy to see
that you don't necessarily have to be a
nerd
to be an engineer so you could you could
you could balance you know smartness but
the designer of wanting to do to do but
your your passion of the bath and make a
success story out of it we're speaking
with anusha of school and she's actually
the CEO of ship and Shore environmental
incorporated and when we return we're
gonna be finding out about how their
technology works how its making an
international impact on pollution that
is generated by big industry stick
around at ship and Shore environmental
we provide customized engineering
solutions for air pollution abatement we
engineer design and fabricate
environmental products and systems
including regenerative thermal oxidizers
for clients that are required to collect
and Destroy missions generated by their
manufacturing operations when you work
with ship and Shore we become your
strategic partner from initial permit
application to commissioning meeting the
most stringent air pollution regulations
tip ensure matches best abatement
technologies to a variety of industrial
applications we have successfully
implemented equipment for manufacturing
of flexible packaging plastics resins
fiberglass fasteners and coated metals
food products pharmaceuticals -
electronics as well as safety systems
for barge degassing and terminal loading
applications shipping Shaw is an
international company serving clients
throughout the Americas Europe and Asia
our team of experts provides overall
engineering and
management of environmental projects to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions always
aiming to keep utility operating costs
down through enhanced energy efficiency
and waste heat recovery ship ensure is
also instrumental in recovering
incentive rebates sponsored through
utility providers for new and improved
equipment operation our skilled teams
are available 24 hours a day seven days
a week
contact us now for a free estimate by
calling five six to nine ninety seven
zero two three three or learn more about
us at ship in short comm I'm speaking
with anusha a Scullion CEO of ship and
Shore environmental Inc can you perhaps
explain to us lay people how your
technology works
Anusha tall order right well in general
I always say every every successful
person I like to think of myself as one
should have a 30 second they used to
call it elevator pitch as to what is it
that we do we are an engineering
consulting manufacturing company that
designs and fabricates and installed
anti pollution control systems for all
different types of industrial facilities
all types of manufacturing facilities
anytime anyone within any factory opens
up but there is a can of paint or a big
bucket of chemicals or anything that
they process to make things we can
potentially be there and we have
removing any of the pollutants that
comes off of them and that is done by
designing the systems to internally
capture and collect all of the
pollutants that are usually lighter than
they're heavier than air
life in the environment where workers
are working and we take it all outside
to our system way in which and we have
clean air coming out of the chimney or
stack of our units Wow you've used the
the word design a few times in your
response so are we talking are these
custom designed like units that you're
using
um yes they are every single project we
have is custom designed based on the
need for for the facility for any
manufacturing operation and even if
manufacturing facilities do the same
things no two systems would be exactly
identical because the nature of the
business may be different the size of
the requirements may be different and
also their geographical location as to
where they are in the country or even
outside of the country dictates what
type of technology we will be utilizing
to remove I'm so neutral in your years
of working with pollution control what
changes in particular and thinking about
like improvements in technology what
have you seen that really has been
exciting for you to be personally a part
of honestly say that in the olden days
removal of the pollution was a problem
at hand for major say refineries
chemical plants petrochemical plants
right they were not so concerned about
removing him efficiently or destroying
them efficiently did the goal was less
than well yeah
just Marion yes over the years
especially with a lot of technology that
we have developed in-house we have been
able to come up with ways to make this
not only the most efficient where you
are not spending a lot of
utility including gas and electricity to
get rid of this but also design them
such that you could bring back a lot of
meats that becomes available from these
type of units faculty plan so the
element of heat recovery cost-conscious
and utility consciousness has been one
of the main things that we focused on
very cool so what interest what
industries are actually benefiting from
your pollution control systems in
California in particular losing control
because of the they type consoles due to
BPA and the local agencies any one
particular manufacturing facility or
operation that puts out over some areas
for tons of emissions or ten tons of
initial is subject to having to do a
control equipment and that could really
be any factory that is processing a a
chemical of some sort to build their
equipment yeah if they operate five days
a week and only one ship for easily be
over that so this is legislation that is
in place to say that they have to have
some kind of pollution control or else
the plants are not given permits to
operate or they're not even given a city
permit so it has to become part of that
some other parts of the country are a
little bit more relaxed but California I
always use the example if you flew into
LAX say 20 25 years ago you could not
see five feet ahead of you or in front
of you because it was just this yellow
haze all over the place and it was
extremely polluted right now Los Angeles
has really improved tremendously and is
among one of the cleaner cities compared
to what it used to be so what we have
done which I am so proud to always share
we truly have cleaned up the air in the
in the vicinity in Los Angeles LA basin
San Diego and most of California do to
more stringent rules which are now
becoming the rule in the country
everywhere else Wow and that really
brings me to like thinking about our
like our rising concerns about the
impact on the environment long term and
so we are seeing pollution control
regulations becoming more strict not
just in California but on a global scale
have these new rules had a big impact on
your clients industries concern about is
to make sure we do the right thing for
all existing manufacturing facilities
and I always said I'm just putting a
Pollution Control does not have to break
your back if you design for it properly
it can really benefit not only the
environment and it can be very cost
prohibitive in terms of trying to bring
some heat back trying to make them all
efficient so and I'm a big proponent of
keeping industry and manufacturing alive
in US and that is what the country was
built on years ago and I hate for
manufacturing sector to leave us and go
elsewhere
so the impact that I see there are
clients that's tier of what this may
cost us and just avoid it totally it
does not have to be as expensive as they
think and other parts of the world are
beginning to adopt these rules and
regulations as well sure and we got to
look at the big picture - I love I never
even had the thought that like hey move
these things to Canada and keep our
factories warm you know not so much of a
problem in California but certainly up
here we could use it
how does ship ensure help meet the
challenges that these new rules have
presented because it seems to be
ever-changing we're always hearing about
how the regulations are
just always being revised how do you
help your customers deal with that I do
have the opportunity to serve the South
Coast Air Quality Management District
locally which is a large institution for
developing a lot of the rules that the
hoo world follows and I'm part of the
fact technology so we tried to stay
ahead of what is coming down the
pipeline what is achievable what is
feasible and try not to really tell the
industry by enforcing the most stringent
rules on them I'm trying to stay ahead
of the game trying to design for future
rather than what you need to do right
this minute
yeah the other things that I've always
advice a lot of my clients has tried to
plan ahead you have a manufacturer you
actually want to grow so try to do this
all at once and not necessarily have to
do it every time you add a piece of
equipment or expand your operation and
lastly I one of the things I always
mentioned to people is please take a
look at what we do to air and air
pollution we have no geographic
boundaries yeah anything we do anywhere
even if we were to send all of this to
Canada and eventually come back to us
anything they do in China and eventually
reach us in other parts of the world so
we just cannot say is not my problem let
somebody else worry about yeah oh
absolutely
Anusha how disruptive are the
regulations and these like just the
changes that are constantly required and
and with that you know thinking about
all the changes that companies have to
make in order to comply with the
regulations is there really going to be
a big impact on the air quality long
term I think I look at the structures in
two ways there will not be a disruption
in
the operations and in the manufacturing
sector if they plan for what the
pollution control for the facility
should be in the long run from the
get-go of the design phase if they this
thing and they need to adopt adapt to
the new rules there are ways to go about
and design a system that would be
completely suitable for them there are a
lot of facilities that are a mom-and-pop
shop they're smaller
however they have to live with the new
rules and regulations so we do design
systems that are much more compact right
it's not scalable Wow it is scalable is
not one-size-fits-all it can easily be
done for any any any facility and as
long as they have to work to do the
right thing there is a way to to manage
this for them and I am a big advocate
speaking on behalf of the industry but a
lot of agencies around to make sure they
don't come down with the toughest rules
for areas where they're just not able to
do it or the technology is not there yet
because they can sometimes get a little
little crazy I should say by wanting to
enforce the worst and the technologists
just is not there to support it yet I
see aside from our interview today I
have noticed that you've been getting a
lot of media coverage ship and Shore
environmental with your growth into an
international presence and really making
a big dent on the environmental impact
of multinational businesses as well can
you just kind of elaborate on that tell
us a little bit about that we recently a
few years ago about three years or so
ago we started working closely with
China EPA as they were developing their
rules and they were trying to model some
of the rules they had after what we've
done in California
information SCA qmb is referred to as
the mecca of air pollution worldwide so
we started working with them sharing
some of the experiences and as a result
with the number of projects in China now
it is always a start we won't be able to
clean that country in a matter of a week
or a month or a year sure but and you
start is a good way to get going we have
recently noticed that there is a lot of
demand in other forests countries we
just started having presence in Thailand
so as the rules and regulations are
tightening up around the world and g20
is encouraging other countries to step
up and do the right thing I think
there's only a lot of potential growth
for our company as well as for the world
to look at things globally rather than
locally sure and that is what we really
need to focus on how do we impact the
world with respect to at least the
pollution and the environmental issues
and I think global warming and climate
change are hopefully a topic for another
discussion
Anusha you mentioned that there are some
mom and pop shops and smaller businesses
that are that are benefitting from your
technology but we're also talking about
and taking a look at big industries
these international multinational
companies but some of these companies
have been in business for a very long
time the challenge there I'd imagine is
that changing the way that they
manufacture in order to meet regulations
could be extremely costly with that in
mind how is ship and Shore environmental
helping them establish and maintain
compliance with these regulations that
are again just always changing mentioned
we do work with any size of
manufacturing facility some of the
larger ones that have been there have
doing it without keeping the environment
in mind either they've been approached
by the local air quality as to what is
the game plan moving forward and some of
the bigger companies multinational
companies I have to say I'm happy to see
that they have adopted a new
sustainability program and part of that
sustainability program has been how do
you control your pollution and how do
you control your waste so the conscious
the companies that are very conscious
about it and want to keep the right
image right message have adopted plans
as to how they roll out the
sustainability program and our activity
does fall within the sustainability
program is life and if for nothing else
one of the things we always say here
when these new seas volatile organic
compounds refer to as pollutants are
going out of the chimney of the city
don't have heating value so if they're
captured and brought back to the plan
they can do that heating with what is
most they could go how water needs me
they're always to capture that you just
think about it
yeah and those are some of the advances
we've made that I really take pride in
all the years amazing and just quickly
when you speak of the manufacturing or
pardon me the design process are you
speaking like I'm thinking about
businesses that have maybe been in
business since the 1960s and like it is
the design process your product like can
you come into a factory like that and
improve their facilities so that it's
not like so that you're offsetting the
the pollution that's coming out of there
yes you're able to do that we have I
have walked into some facilities believe
it or not that have been there for
decades one thing that happens
immediately is the air
and the environment within the
manufacturing facility becomes much much
better a lot thinner so you've got
happier operators you have happier
people inside the plant because till
then nothing was being done and all of
those people were are breathing the
fumes in yeah breathing thinking about
the healthcare coverage yeah so you have
happier people inside the plan and more
productive people as a result and
secondly we have been able we have never
ever failed to design around what is
existing in a plant if they choose to
move forward and be conscious about
handling their pollution and Pollution
Control wonderfully can be done and
thank God for what engineering practices
we're always able to come up with a
great city beautiful
Anusha where can our viewers learn more
about your technology's impact on the
environment well naturally is always
great if they go to our website which is
one place we always like to get people
to go visit because we have chased
studies we have pictures of what has
been done we talked about different
industries and naturally www dot
and Shawn as HIPAA and D SH or EECOM and
we do have a live chat available so if
someone ever had a question we a lot of
times we even have students that are
doing papers and projects they'll go to
our sites and want to learn more we have
students that become intern over summer
time so we try to keep the educational
side of everything alive and kicking at
all times as well as hoping to be able
to gain more clients as a result of
whether it's a brand new facility
they're building whether they want to
just become more aggressive in their and
environmental practices or just just
just just wanting to do the right thing
fantastic ship and Shore common usha
thank you so much for taking the time
out
your busy schedule to share with how
your company is helping to reduce the
world's pollution keep up the great work
thank you so very much and thanks for
the opportunity love hearing from your
audience if you have any questions we'll
be more than happy to entertain those
and again thank you
[Music]
