welcome to the coffee break for June 1st
2020 it's our community coffee break
little chance for us to get together at
the community and just hang out and
think about other things
welcome everybody good to see you yeah
finally come and it's outside it was
three degrees this morning here quick
well we'll get some quick housekeeping
out of the way coffee breaks
today is Monday obviously and so I
mentioned previously I was going to be
experimenting with seeing if Monday's
we're gonna work and last week I noticed
a bit no Monday's do not work so because
what happened is Monday of course
typically the day that I write the
newsroom stories and then get them all
prepped for Tuesday and then they're
ready for Wednesday when we do the
report so we were a day behind last week
so so coffee break is going to be moved
to Sunday so effective Sunday June the
7th that will be our first attempt at
locking down a Sunday at noon as our
date so we'll find that we'll find a
place that it fits within my schedule so
that I can be there I also had a staff
meeting with the team yesterday so we
had Sasha Jeff Henry and Robert we're
all there and we had an opportunity to
just kind of discuss how things are
going to flow and it's just finding a
day when we were basically available and
able to do this so so hopefully we'll
lock down Sundays so Peter welcome
just to know Sunday is going to be our
next coffee break on June the 7th and
then I'm always posting those on the
homepage of category-five TV so it's on
the calendar and it's not which I try to
keep up to date bill you pointed out to
me that I forgot to put it on the
calendar and so I did that but it is
also on the website itself I do post
that there so we in our meeting we kind
of had
rain/storms about how the heck are we
going to do category five technology TV
amidst and post pandemic and you know
it's like all the ideas that we're
trying to come up with and that's it
Sascha suggests okay well we can still
do the desk thing but we just need
Plexiglas between us so holy cow the
world that we're in a well that's what
they yeah that's what the check out any
supermarket check it out people are
doing that's what you'll see you're done
TV it'll look weird on TV that's well
not if you sit there Plexiglas to be a
John then you won't even see it then you
got the curve the desk around the camera
if you have a green tape or something on
the edge of the thing the two meters
then gets up like that so that so I
suggest maybe we need Maxwell Smart dome
of silence
Wyatt one for each of us and we'll just
kind of we'll just kind of it'll come
down on top of each of us as we arrive
but I would say at least we don't use
headset now so like if we had to wear
masks
we do have lapels so there's always the
opportunity to do that but what what we
what I think we've decided on is making
a cluster of independent so a cluster as
in multiple devices but independent as
in each one will have its own distro
raspberry pi unit that will each have
the Raspberry Pi OS and zoom install and
each one of those has an HDMI output so
then each Raspberry Pi becomes a camera
source essentially for zoom so I'd have
one Raspberry Pi dedicated to Jeff and
that would be HDMI out into his capture
and then when I push the button on the
on the stream deck it would switch to
his camera basically and then have one
procession one for Henry and
however we want to set it up so it's
just like one Raspberry Pi per person it
might work
so that's kind of where I'm sorry I
think I missed what it is you were
meaning to do with that Raspberry Pi
being able to have it have them come in
remotely through zoom ah I see okay
because for the show
we obviously don't want this grid layout
and we can't have it so that it's
switching back and forth every time
someone speaks and okay no you need a
separate input for each of them so you
can edit them post electrician anyway
you don't even and even live we need to
be able to switch to the person who's
speaking manually and I and and people
may not realize but zoom cannot be
running on the broadcast system because
it's broadcasting so that means the good
camera that I use is out of it basically
is so during the interview or during the
conversation I would be on my phone
which would then you've done you've done
this before though was I recall because
you you did the same thing I live oh
good point yeah Wednesday we found that
out when my pine book probe would not
work for the feature and then so then
signed off rebooted changed the way I
connected things I plugged the I plugged
the atomos ninja flame into the pine
Book Pro and pushed the cord mm-hmm
worked flawlessly so some and if not a
half a dozen raspberry pi for eight gigs
yeah exactly
so well I think four would do it because
four is as many inputs as I have oh that
yeah so then we just basically that
would allow us to treat each person on
their zoom connection as a as a camera
source so I think that could work and
it's probably a pretty good way to do it
on the cheap on the cheap it's going to
cost like you know four raspberry pies
here in Canada is like 600 bucks so you
know what selectee dollars American Rush
[Laughter]
ridiculous Robert said to me because
Robert in Florida right he's like oh
yeah raspberry-pi it's only 75 bucks for
the new one really 110 dollars here just
for the board plus you gotta buy the
power supply plus you gotta buy the case
I'm not even sure I'd use a rough spot
for that anymore I probably you've
already already been talking about the
owner you've already been talking about
the Odroid what c4 I believe yeah I
don't know I haven't looked yet I don't
know if they're any cheaper and they get
hit up a mirror droid will see you see
what they've got my top light my problem
yeah I really don't like and much menu
you've seen this too right
you've seen where the raspberry pie if
it loses power potentially that SD card
yeah it's corrupted you can't afford
that especially especially not live so
you know maybe maybe once an option but
I don't know what the crotch point is
though so maybe maybe just a bunch of a
few fours with with emmc little debian
this with the desktop yeah I like I like
what you're thinking and it's got HDMI I
was strictly thinking you know I I just
need a sec with some H HDMI output but
you're right it doesn't have to be
Raspberry Pi no you need for it to work
especially when you're alive you can't
afford to be having it break down
unexpectedly not just not to say that
they will but if you lose power all of a
sudden being yeah but if you know why
our and the SD card corrupting is the
least of your problems if my UPS is so
weak it can't power for Raspberry Pi
I'm in trouble because that our 510 is
going there you've got a retina beeping
yes don't you I do yeah I gotta get new
batteries and that thing well
good point yeah I threw it out there for
in case it would be done you know yes as
a peasant option so yeah I like that
idea
Xu fours or the new C for any of those
would probably do just fine it's really
just plugging them in and then seeing
how they how they operate with zoom in
fullscreen I think it's a neat idea
anyway baby yes sir middle name
final final thing for housekeeping
before before we can just have
free-for-all is Robert is going to be
expanding his feature so on the news
room he does the crypto corner which is
kind of like its new centric because
it's part of the news room so very much
about like the flow of cryptocurrency
and and the value and why the value is
fluctuating from week to week and things
like that and any big news in
cryptocurrency but he's going to be
expanding to also include a feature on
tech TV which is going to be an
occasional feature but we're going to be
he's going to be presenting some
exciting things like how does the
blockchain work and he's going to be
showing us under the hood like behind
give us a github source code and stuff
like that how it actually functions and
and doing some more kind of geekery as
opposed to just the news end of things
so we're going to be getting into the
the technical aspects of not just
cryptocurrency because we tend to think
of the blockchain is cryptocurrency but
it's so much more than that its
encryption its security its data storage
and we're gonna be getting into some of
that and and particularly because he
that's what he does he's going to be
hosting that particular feature so so
we're gonna have some of those coming up
so that's the final thing that we that
we really covered that I wanted to share
with you guys a real quick question did
you
you plan to when you move the coffee
break to Sunday the seventh of June is
that still going to be the same time
during the of the day so it's gonna be
midday your time correct living a clock
my time okay thank you yeah all right
guys all yours
Florida shoot everybody talk all it
would you thirteen baby noise I answered
that question Peter I answered that
question
yep and I said that that that's none of
our business
even still it's just it's something that
we don't we don't act Anne Marsh man has
been on the show he's been here in
person we all know his first name we all
know who he is so so it's it's fine for
me to refer to him by his first name or
his his alias because he's already
presented that when somebody has not
volunteered that information we don't
request it three live and I think in one
of those he had this last name yeah yeah
he's been here and you've been here on
the show yeah no I was talking about I
had I had my computer on which I'm
logged in it's large man and then the
iPad which came up is my real name and
then another my phone which was like my
my legal name so well
no worries no worries Peter I'm just
laying down the law that's all legal
reminds me of a video when I was born
she still had the two months before she
attorney turned eighteen oh yeah I know
there will be 92 more great more great
is Peter Hanson your wire so it looks
like either might put my pine book or my
pine phone is on its way
I just got notification that it's that
it's been shipped
maybe they'll ship both in the same
package I don't know but yep so I'm Pro
I did yes I did pass that is you opt for
iPhone or auntie a fancy of course
that's the whole reason I got it cuz I
as much as I like that pine book you
know you and I've talked about this and
you might just at that point book that
keyboard is just driving me crazy
yeah oh absolutely
thinking about getting me a pine tablet
to just because you know I'm thinking
maybe and maybe we're clear realize in
your video have watch did I know you
I was watching I think I lost mix now
[Music]
I'm sort of stopped watching there I
suppose I should go back and stop
watching and then and at one point they
were mentioning they came talking about
the keyboards for our brief moment and
then Steve Gibson said that he commented
that his function case was on the left
hand side of the keyboard
no $0.32 the keyboard they used to be
yeah absolutely yeah so he didn't have
any function keys in there not 3270 the
original PC keyboards had that as I
recall yeah I know we're a small crew
today but it is there anyone here who I
so what is that and I'm not sure the
keyboard layouts over yeah keyboard like
international standards organization
that's which you let me finish speaking
it's usually used in Europe fancy is
American so so boom if you have a look
on the on the point 64 website and look
at the original or any screenshots at
all of the original time book not the
pine Book Pro because you can get both
keyboard layouts but just the original
pine book I believe I did I believe it
doesn't have an auntie option am i right
so now did they though it's not a kind
of keyboard at all it's not a nice Nancy
so if I so I'm just I know this is
running through my head right now but if
iso is international standards
association okay so can we say ansi is
american not the stupid ISO yeah it's
not married if it is you were trying to
push you're trying to put in those
thousands upon thousands of Europeans
but that's okay
you really push it you're really trying
to push much man's buttons aren't you
dear I Roby no you said why here I don't
I
I hated that layout I think I just hope
that I didn't offend too many people
with my reaction to it it was well I
tried it - I didn't like it I went time
I fainted but I'm annoyed as all get-out
just you know what you used to that's
not right exactly but the mind book is
different they had to make compromises
for the size and had to move keys around
and ahead of delivered so it's not a
standard keyboard by any stretch of the
imagination yeah yeah well I'm still
having trouble making a good physical
connection to the point I'm in order to
program at the raspberry PI's just not
recognizing that there's a pint I'm
there so I don't know what I don't know
what I'm gonna do with that yet whether
I'm gonna solve a some wise honor or
what do you do it came with a doc did
that not help the doc only provides
power not programming Oh give me a break
it is a it is a consumer device or you
know the ultimate consumer device will
it'll just be there for for docking for
power for charging it's not there for
programming it now now how do you
program it when you when it's first
supply I guess that would be done at the
factory once they decide what image to
use to program it with but for now I've
just got to figure out how to make a
good physical connection because this
just isn't cutting it I I can't seem to
make fur
I think I got it to the point where the
pine wood where the Raspberry Pi was
recognizing that that point time was
there at least it wasn't complaining but
I couldn't make it I couldn't get an
image to it I couldn't make it even
acknowledge that the thing was there I
just I just got it to a point where it
where it stopped complaining but it it
never did you know successfully tenet to
it so I
they have to have to pull out a
soldering iron and look at Robbie
because you've got some sobering
practice to do yeah
those those points at the old pair
dreaming will the for programming points
are very very close on that boy and I'm
exceedingly concerned that our short
circuit short circuit well yeah I've got
to get a really fine soldering tip as
well so that I can get I tend to be a
bit heavy-handed with the solver I've
got a good soul bring on Peter don't
worry thinking copper stop that crap is
my friend the team copper stuff is
useless you want to get himself a 60-40
stuff I'm less concerned about what you
know I had good solder I have a good
soldiering iron it's just a matter of
practice just like Robbie nine amateurs
Hey are they past Brewer they
surface-mount the connectors looks like
passed through but I need to actually
take the board out of the device to
verify that I'm just wondering could we
put headers on it and then put it into
like you still have children you still
have to solder I mean I'd have to say if
there were solder pads on the other side
of the ball well that's what Robbie
means by yeah so yeah we'd have like
header pins so that we could we could
then out like user some cables to put it
on to a well if I put pins in then I'll
never be able to close it up so you know
I'd be sacrificing that you know if I
solder the wires indirectly then I can
at least cut a groove on a very corner
of it and then it the wires out that way
on the or on the edge of it and is that
way make sure the work done
make sure they don't do a fool off or
something you know well of course yeah I
make sure that I drawed against anything
but close can you change - yeah I know
change the view here so that people can
see I don't know you can even see that
because because they are yellow
everything there at the top of the
screen and yeah in this orientation from
top to bottom
yes and you can see how you can see how
close they are do they do go of them
this for element might not show up but
that's actually for connects the only
these are the four pins that are
supposed to go yeah yeah and do they
plug in yes I see but they're not making
a good consistent physical connection I
mean you literally just yeah yeah and I
have to trim them too because they were
they were like like five times as long
as that and they were stepping into the
back of the display and potentially
shorting out against the Bluetooth
antenna with a copper thing that they
that copper thing that you could see
stretching keyboard I know that many of
the at least in Scandinavia programming
they the user they often change the
keyboard layout into English because
there is a lot of brackets and curly
brackets in and we have two keys in
order to taste you know in the
Scandinavian capably
are spread out across for kids and you
have to pray
stone the after your team or so since
okay clear because about better bed
dirty I'm all for today resistance less
you know good little bit before name if
I brought something to clean them up on
gay rights I mean check would I don't
make it like you're a yeah go good
resistance a does everything today
it may be Quito door which is a dirty
connection from that yeah thank you like
it well Robin made a good point as to
whether they pass through or not I'm not
sure if they are so it may be that it
may be that those pins I just played it
on one side of the one surface of the of
the of the board yes that's true then
those pins putting those pins in the
holes it's not going to make a good
connection in any connection prisons in
yet here's hoping
good luck vp9 keep us posted how it goes
okay I wait to hear that I still don't
have my fine time so this is great
because you can mess up yours and then
show me what not to do yeah you you just
tell me what not to do and then I'll do
it right on camera and everybody really
wow that Robbie really knows what yeah
he rocks man he rocks all right guys
we'll see great seeing you and I'll see
you again on Sunday the seventh of June
for another community coffee break take
care have a good one looking forward to
it see you later
