this is the category 5 dot TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight Linux bias
time to head into the newsroom here's
Henry Bailey Brown Thank You Robbie to
help with the self-isolation applause
google has made its stadium pro video
game streaming service free for two
months Phil Harrison the head of Google
stadia wrote on Google's blog video
games can be a valuable way to socialize
with friends and family when you're
stuck at home so are giving gamers in 14
countries free access to stadia for two
months unlike before where you have to
order the stadia controller and the
chromecast ultra in order to subscribe
now all you need is a gmail account
which many of us already have for free
but while most games available to stream
through Google stadia need to be bought
the pro subscription does come with some
free ones the notes notable of these are
destiny to create steam world quest hand
of Gilgamesh and thumper stadia Pro is
normally a $10 monthly subscription
those already subscribed simply won't
get billed for the next two months while
people signing up for the first time we
will get all the benefits of pro and
will be switched to your free account
after two months Pro benefits include
access to the free game library and the
ability to Street the stream them at a
higher quality than just 1080p and 60
frames per second during this period
however Google will be adjusting their
bandwidth usage to cope with the influx
of new users and the increase of people
streaming stuff online in general like
we're all at home these days right so as
a result the default will be 1080p
instead of the 4k however you can switch
that in settings for now if you're new
to stadia go to stadia dot-com to sign
up download the stadia app on Android or
iOS and then you can play on your laptop
desktop Chrome OS tablet with your
favorite controller or mouse and
keyboard again just some personal
thoughts on this story it's a very
interesting time to be a gamer for sure
again stadia Pro has had its positives
as well as negatives such as the
idea that people aren't too happy with
having to buy their games again to play
in a cloud platform that being said
there's other alternatives available if
you don't want to get into stadia and
Google such as the Xbox game paths how
again you have a huge library of games
that you buy that are very often
cross-platform so you can play these
games on your Xbox as well as on your PC
etc with a single account your Xbox
account or you can even do the other
service that I personally prefer the
NVIDIA GeForce now we're basically
you're using a Nvidia servers to play
your games however it's actually a free
service you can play up to an hour for
free or you can play up to I believe six
or eight hours paying around $10 a month
Canadian but basically what this service
entails is that you don't have to buy
your games the second time you basically
just log in to steam my games or even
free games such as war Thunder World
warships World of Tanks whatever and you
can actually play your games that you
already own on this free service well if
you play only for an hour but again I've
used it I'm very happy with it and again
you don't have to buy your games twice
which is the big factor with stadia well
stadia prove worthy let's decide you can
now play for two months what a great
time to be able to get into streaming
your games thanks Henry and for our next
story here's Jeff Weston the CEO of
Cambridge Qualcomm computing called
honeywell's efforts the best-kept secret
in quantum computing in a race where
most of the major players are vying for
attention Honeywell has quietly worked
on its efforts for the last few years
and under strict NDA it seems but early
last month the company announced a major
breakthrough that acclaims will allow it
to launch the world's most powerful
quantum computer this year
Honeywell has long built the kind of
complex control systems that power many
of the world's largest industrial sites
it's that kind of experience that has
now allowed it to build an advanced ion
trap at the core of its efforts
computers use bits to transfer
information the more bits the more data
that could be transferred think of the
leap from Super Nintendo at 16 bits to
the Nintendo 64 at
64-bits quantum information is
transferred in qubits which have the
same purpose as a traditional computer
bits but are radically more powerful
these qubits can eventually form quantum
gates which can lead to quantum circuits
that's the measure Google was using
Honeywell however is measuring what IBM
first called quantum volume which looks
at a quantum machine more holistically
taking into account the number of qubits
connectivity and gate and measurement
errors the larger the quantum volume the
more complex problems you can solve says
dr. patty Lee chief scientists for
Honeywell IBM owns machines ibm's own
machines Havok we've achieved a quantum
volume of 32 Honeywell's machines
achieves twice that currently Honeywell
has about 100 scientists engineers and
developers dedicated to its quantum
project original projections might have
seen Honeywell's quantum computer
unveiled this summer we'll see how long
that shapes up in light of Copan 19
thanks Jeff we do have to take a quick
break the crypto corner and more of this
week's top tech stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
[Music]
I'll come back to the cryptic owner yes
I missed you too
it's been some time and as you can see
I'm working from home it's probably most
of us we're running through deep crisis
on a global level and if you're working
in the travel industry or thorough
ministry then life is not easy and as
there as always when there was a
difficulty there's always also an
opportunity and I see the opportunity
very clear here in my industry which is
the cryptocurrency industry of
blockchain technology there was even a
research done by LinkedIn that came out
with a result that companies are
desperate need of blockchain developers
and that's what I want to focus on today
I want to focus on on a positive note
and so who's currently hiring blockchain
developers or blockchain people that
that our knowledge of blockchain
technologies well first of course
startups there are a lot of startups
that have got brilliant ideas they have
got money and they're desperate look off
of good people then large companies
because they know that I have to move
into blockchain technologies tech firms
as always and governments so those are
the four big sectors that are currently
looking for blockchain people and what
are they looking for well of course the
usual subjects marketing which includes
public relations and communication and
social networking and so on trade and
sales this is a big one support help
desk and so on legal compliance and my
favorite is development and that's what
I want to focus on where are a
technology Channel and so that's why I
would like to focus more on development
so if you don't know anything about
programming don't worry about it this
this is your moment here and so what
you'll see behind me is a step by step
idea on how you can get into this market
how you can find
the job in this industry and so the
first step if you don't know anything
about a programming language is learn a
programming language now it's not
difficult within a day you know the
basics it's really easy to do that it's
all about logic if you can't think in a
logical way then learning a programming
language is something very easy and I
would start with JavaScript and they're
all by the way very similar so there's
no big differences between one language
and the other I would start with
JavaScript because you can develop
something that is easily visible on a
screen or so and then if you know
JavaScript I would go over into Python
because that's what a lot of crypto
companies or platforms are using there
is lot there is a lot of help free help
on YouTube for example just Google
JavaScript courses and you'll find
multitude of them and you'll see why the
reviews of there are serious ones are
not
there's also professional organizations
like Coursera or EDX or from
universities like Harvard or similar
courses on programming just run through
a few of them learn as much as you can I
said and the basics you you know them
within one day once you've got that
knowledge I would focus on blockchain so
let's take a theorem which is the one
that most people are certain you are
using and searching for learn about the
theory of how easy theorem working look
under the hood they learn how they're
currently doing the proof of work what
is this smart contract all those things
so that that you can have a decent
discussion with somebody and you know
more or less what a theorem how the a
theorem platform works once that's done
then of course you have to dive deep
into a theorem programming so solidity
and so on in future it will be VIPRE and
that is something that can also be
learned very fast there are also
specialist courses that offer this year
like udemy.com and and bit degree they
offer courses you also see the the
the reviews of people what they think of
those courses you can just I mean
they're not free but they're cheap 20
bucks 50 bucks it's not a big deal but
my favorite one is Ivan on tanked
because he's been like the technical
guru in this industry on a lower level
and his courses are really fantastic
because he's office he offers everything
from the start if you've got don't have
much knowledge just take his courses and
you'll get very fast to a level where
you do know what it is about after about
two months in this programming
environment
I can guarantee you know 99 percent more
than most of the people yeah so it's a
lot of superficial talk that you hear
about this crypto industry but because
it's a very young industry there is not
much knowledge out there and and you
don't want to become a Bitcoin developer
anyway which is tough you want to just
find a job then two months work should
do the job now of course I put also up a
list of where to find a job so there are
several websites then that that offer
already now a job search I would visit
them and just I mean they've got the
usual ones and every country works
different the list that I've got here is
of course more America us focused but
every country has got their own list of
developers that they are using so that's
for me today so it's very positive
in a sense that if you know if you want
to go into the blockchain industry if
you know about cryptocurrencies the the
future's bright I mean it's literally
like that I wish you good luck if you've
got any questions then just contact us
and we will see you on how we can help
you anyway that's for me so back to the
studio thanks bye thanks Robert
just a reminder we're not giving away
financial advice here on the
category-five TV newsroom but instead
just trying to give you some information
and leaving it up to you to make the
decision Henry next story
github announced last week that all of
its core features are now available for
free to all users that means unlimited
private repositories with unlimited
collaborations for all including teams
that use a service for commercial
projects as well as up to 2,000 minutes
per month a free access to github
actions the company's automation and CI
CD platform teams that want more
advanced features like code owners or
enterprise features like saml support
will still have to upgrade to a pay plan
at this time but the pricing for those
plans has been slashed in half the
company has always taking a freemium
approach to its pricing model but since
its acquisition by Microsoft it started
to expand the number of features in its
free accounts github CEO NAT Friedman
stressed that this move had been long on
the roadmap and it isn't a limited
promotion motivated by the current covin
19 crisis he says this is something we
plan to do and have wanted to do for a
long time since we essentially did the
acquisition and now getting to this
point to do it took until now until it
became a high priority thanks Henry Jeff
what is going on with SETI at home
astronomers say they have all the data
they need in the search for
extraterrestrial life distributed
computer network SETI at home has ceased
scouring radio telescope data for signs
of extraterrestrials after 20 years much
like folding at home which is currently
acting as the world's most powerful
supercomputer in the fight against the
new coronavirus SETI at home utilized a
vast user donated network of computers
to analyze data but is now heading into
hibernation SETI at home has been in
operation since 1999 during that time it
has processed heaps of radio telescope
data collected from the deepest depths
of space and listened in to narrowband
radio signals in order to track down
anything out of the ordinary to do so it
relied upon the contributions of
computers from across the globe graphics
cards and powerful CPUs in tow all
working together in order to learn of
life beyond Earth
but don't you worry it's not shutting
down due to lack of interest in fact the
researchers based out of USC Berkeley
are inundated with the data but with no
need for further data the team of
astronomers will instead focus their
efforts on back-end analysis for later
publication in a scientific journal the
project's message boards will remain
operational but there's no longer any
need to task your gaming rig with the
search for extraterrestrials SETI at
home may one day return researchers are
eyeing up potentially eyeing up
potential use cases and will distribute
tasks in cosmology and pulsar research
research sometime in the future nothing
is set in stone however so it's better
to put your gaming PC to good use
researching elsewhere than leaving it
idling the SETI T at home team
recommends lending your help to folding
at home it's a critical task of
simulating the Cova 19 virus that
project is currently operating at 1.5
EXA flops of computing power kindly
donated from across the globe that's a
whole frontier supercomputers worth for
scale sounds like a great use for our
GPU hey big thanks to BP 9 this week as
well as our community of viewers for
submitting stories thank you for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
and don't forget to Like and subscribe
for all your tech news with a slight
Linux bias and if you appreciate what we
do well you can become a patron at
patreon.com slash newsroom from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Ravi
Ferguson
