this week though we are going to be
looking at the Raspberry Pi 4 and
specifically a little bit about the
thermal aspects of the Raspberry Pi 4
it's getting hot in here the Raspberry
Pi has been running yeah so it's 83
degrees here in studios are dealing with
gosh yeah I know I don't turn that thing
off it's probably good that our air
conditioning has been broken for the
past couple of weeks because this is a
thermal test of the Raspberry Pi but it
works out well for us in this particular
instance yes the Raspberry Pi 4 is known
to be a hot little piece of kit let's
just say that it gets hot and when it
does every rumor has it it throttles
itself yes so hey if she seems pretty
fast and then it gets hot it's gonna
throttle itself down and run a little
bit slower yep stick it in the freezer
and run cables in and it's gonna run 1.5
gigahertz no don't do that no
condensation the proper thing to do is
to add a heatsink
that's what everybody's oh yeah add a
heat sink to your Raspberry Pi 4 that's
the right thing to do well we haven't
done that tonight we're looking at the
Raspberry Pi 4 4 gigabyte oh that is a
lot oh my goodness that's a little bit
of green smoke over there can you guys
smell that
you just crack an egg and the egg fries
on top of the Raspberry Pi 4 I did
actually put my hand on top of that case
over there just before the show and I
could feel the heat coming off of it I
could feel that it was a little bit warm
not warm enough to melt the plastic that
goes but it is it is getting a little
bit warm so we'd like to actually see if
we're able to heat up that Raspberry Pi
4 by simply running
stress test and what that's going to do
is it's gonna run the the CPU as hard as
we can possibly run it we're gonna
basically bring this thing to its knees
and see if we can get it to get hot and
see if we can get it to throttle that's
the thing because we've heard so you
know rumor has it if you've been looking
at the Raspberry Pi for as perhaps a
desktop replacement or even just
something to have on the desktop as a
computer maybe a set-top box it'd be
great for that it's got two 4k HDMI
output so you can hook up to TVs
theoretically that's the idea I mean
it's a powerful little beast except then
then it's gonna get hot if it gets hot
does it throttle itself which means it
takes the speed and turns down the speed
in order to keep it cool I'm gonna jump
over here just really really quickly so
I'm just working my way over on the set
I just want to quickly show you the
inside of this case is a bare naked
Raspberry Pi 4 and what I mean by that
is there is no heatsink and it is
running it's been running for about an
hour here at studio D and we've
purposefully got it that way so that we
can run some thermal tests and find out
where this thing is gonna fall as far as
the temperature and the frequency and
frequency refers to in this case how
fast is the processor running all right
so the base frequency of a Raspberry Pi
4 is like 600,000 so that is 600
megahertz so 0.6 gigahertz to put that
into current standards so I've actually
got this up on my computer screen I've
SSH in and I have a tool on NEMS Linux
so this tool is open-source you're
welcome to use it port it whatever you
want to do however it does rely on the
thermal data that's provided by NEMS
info part of the NEMS Linux operating
system which is a monitoring system for
raspberry PI's and other devices single
board computers and it's it allows you
to monitor networks you can find out
more even download it and run these same
tasks on your device and NEMS
XCOM in the root folder of NEMS linux is
a folder called NEMS at men and within
that folder is a program called NEMS
stress nem stress uses the linux stress
command in order to as I said bring this
thing to its knees it's going to detect
how many cores there are on the
processor and then say we're gonna max
all those cores out yeah just all just
unbelievable amounts of processing so
you don't want to do this on a on a
production system we're doing this on a
system that's sitting up on our bench
specifically to see the thermals and the
frequency so nem stress will report a
little bit of data that data is
collected by the the the frequency the
speed of the processor has it been down
clocked and whether it is what the
temperature is so I'm gonna jump over
here because it is going to take about
five minutes to run so let's zoom in and
in that folder home slash routes slash
nemesis slash names admin I'm just gonna
run dot names and stress just like that
and we're gonna let that run and it is
going to take five minutes so it's
already activated them stress how do I
know that I can actually switch windows
here I have another terminal window and
I'm gonna type H top and let's look at
what is happening here you see that
processor it is maxed right out so we
were at a 1-1 load average we've now hit
10.38 and that load average is now
twelve point four three and climbing
fourteen point four and you see our four
cores on the raspberry pi four they are
100% maxed out we're bringing that thing
right to its knees right and if I task
back to our stress test it's just doing
its thing so if you didn't have the
second window open you would just see
that it's working away and yes yeah I
would just simply see this dot dot dot
dot dot dot but then I get the report at
the end Jeff right which we're going to
see in that data
from the report is very important to us
so as I mentioned is this is tracking
with every little iteration so basically
every second it's tracking things like
thermal data the frequency of the
processor has it scaled up has it scale
down how has the temperature increased
and then finally at the end what our
averages are Oh does it get does it also
give you like a real-time shot of oh it
took this long to hit max and then it
doesn't know it doesn't because it's
just a five-minute average right all
right so this is so what I see is that
and at the end is the the general report
you're going to see that in just a
couple of moments time looking at H top
again there it is still sitting at 100%
why are we doing this I want to see so
this is this is key we're all interested
in the raspberry pie for yes what
difference is it going to make if we go
with the stock case right right versus
something a little higher end why would
we want to spend 30 40 dollars on a
raspberry pie for case that's the
question that we're setting out to
possibly answer this week because the
alternative is throwing it into freezer
that is that's a very expensive case
that uses a lot of electricity this is
true what effects ice cubes it's true
this is also true TV dinners are a thing
that's not currently a thing with our
solution that we have here we're gonna
find out Sasha if we can cook a TV
dinner with this thing if we once this
thing is all said and done so the test
is a run and you know this you know
going back to the fact that you know
we're now like the end of a season yeah
12 years the fact that we can run a test
for five minutes waiting for dots to
compile on a show this and we could just
fill it with a little conversation
itself oh yeah oh thanks Jeff actually
on our script no okay okay so dot as far
as I'm just reading what I see here fair
enough but as far as these tests are
what is it doing so first somebody who's
running this test that's going on how is
it heating it up like why
check out the Linux stress command so
nems
stress what it does is it creates
several instances of the stress command
which maxes out the processor and it
creates I don't know I think it's nine
instances of it and each of those
instances pushes every single core of
the processor so it works it really
really hard it's just a CPU test and the
only reason is to see does the CPU get
hot and does it throttle is it easy to
accidentally do this with a stress test
like to accidentally like how many tabs
do you have open in the Google Chrome
that's the question right yeah because
the thing is it seems limitless it seems
like something you would just you'd ask
it to do a lot and then all of a sudden
it would get hot and it would slow it
down
sash is like I don't know if nem stress
is running so I'm gonna run it again
just see how that goes so this week we
actually have an Aled we know aluminum
case that I'm going to in robe the
Raspberry Pi for in okay and the eyelid
we know case now we've seen these before
for the Raspberry Pi threes and I
absolutely love the aluminum nature of
these because they're they're heat
dissipating they're very well
constructed they're very attractive
aesthetically and now with the Raspberry
Pi for what's happened is the Raspberry
Pi 3 cases are no longer compatible
correct we've seen that like through the
years Raspberry Pi has maintained a
fairly good consistency from so you know
Raspberry Pi 2 and then upgrade to a
Raspberry Pi 3 you can reuse the same
case and just get the upgrade well now
with a Raspberry Pi for you can't do
that any guesses why that is like from a
no but from a from an actual physical
standpoint of the the size is identical
a little yeah a little the screw holes
yeah
no screw holes are in the same place
so what could it be what could make it
so there's not referrals we're closed
different ports yeah it's the dual HDMI
so remember the Raspberry Pi up until
the Raspberry Pi 4 only had a single
full-sized HDMI now they have a dual
HDMI micro so you have to have a special
case in order to do that my thermal test
has completed okay well this is the NEM
stress test here's what we know about
the Raspberry Pi for running as it is
just in the standard case and working
that baby as hard as we can lowest
temperature was sixty nine point six to
seven degrees somebody's got to write
this down because we're gonna have to
refer back to this sixty nine sixty nine
point six to seven degrees Celsius was
the lowest temperature so that CPU on
the Raspberry Pi three four was sitting
at 69 degrees before we ever started
just sitting there idle doing nothing
okay then as it went on it hit eighty
five point six nine eight degrees
Celsius yeah now interestingly the
slowest speed at idle was fifty one
point five gigahertz so when you see
fifteen a hundred and what is that
1,500,000 that is in fact 1.5 gigahertz
the top speed of the Raspberry Pi
without overclocking right and then the
maximum speed was the same and when the
board was hot this is very interesting
even when it got up to eighty five point
six nine eight because I've heard that
it will throttle after eighty degrees
it didn't throw it not it didn't it
didn't throttle the frequency maintained
was 1.5 gigahertz you know is this the
first time you've run this test no I've
run it a few times just to see and this
is this is the result without a without
any kind of cooling system which is very
interesting because like you I've only
read the reviews and people talking
about how well if it gets hot it's going
to throttle and if it hits at eighty
degrees
Celsius it's going to throttle no is
that is on a sustained timeframe well
this was five minutes which I sure maybe
a kicks in that say ten minutes it goes
okay this has been too much I can't
handle you guys went away no I just like
has anybody looked at the programming
within the raspberry PI's firmware to
look at where is that throttling kicking
in yeah I I think that's an interesting
point now I do see you know at first
boot so I've had it idling so to be fair
the goal here was to make it so that the
two tasks would be as close as possible
so I've had it idling for about an hour
and with that now when I first turned it
on it was sitting at 600 megahertz right
now we do see that even when I first
started this test it was running at 1.5
gigahertz so something about the
Raspberry Pi
maybe because NEMS is doing more things
than just sitting idle NamUs has Nagios
and everything else running and and a
MySQL server and Apache too and
everything else so there's a little more
heft going on so but it didn't ever
scale down right and I think Jeff the
whole intention but with throttling is
that when something gets hot it's going
to throttle down very quickly yes you
would see that in that temperature
increase because that's a pretty big
temperature increase you would see so at
eighty five point six nine eight degrees
Celsius it still did not throttle over a
five-minute threshold so would it
throttle eventually if it's sat that way
for 30 minutes it's possible but this is
something that's happening in the kernel
this is something that's happening
actively and I didn't see it happen here
but how often would you you know be
using your PI to the point where you've
maxed it out for a sustained period
that's it that's why we're pushing this
to its knees we're doing this
specifically to see would it throttle
yeah would it get really really hot and
it didn't it didn't get super hot I've
seen Odroid Xu fours get hotter than 85
degrees right and
stain that happily and not have a
problem now this is an interesting case
because there's no heat sink whatsoever
and we're sitting at about 85 degrees
now getting a quick look at this as well
we've got an average temperature of 78
point six seven oh pardon me six three
seven three you folks see that
seventy-eight point six three seven
three degrees the lower that is the
lower the temperature at heavy load and
the average frequency of course is still
one point five gigahertz it stayed there
and maintained it right right so now I'm
gonna halt the Raspberry Pi four coach
is to shut it down I've lost connection
to the Raspberry Pi four and I'm gonna
jump over here and we're gonna get a
look at this Ella do we know case so as
I make my way over here folks we're
gonna disconnect the Raspberry Pi four
from its peripherals we've shut that
down using halt and let's get into this
case I can feel the heat coming off of
that
I mean 85 degrees oh yeah oh it feels
smoking you want to feel that yeah yeah
it's like showing to get your hands in
here so the interesting thing don't
touch the processor but anything else is
fair game
yeah it is pretty warm folks oh yeah
what's interesting about the Raspberry
Pi four is the heat dissipation occurs
over the entire main board so the PCB
dissipates the heat so that it is spread
over the entire main board and we're not
going to have it like the Raspberry Pi
three where it's very much focused on
the CPU right so this board is designed
in such a way that it's trying to get
that heat off of the CPU and into the
mainboard and I can feel that very much
so in the in these peripherals and while
I don't have a thermal thermal scanner
in order to show you that I can tell you
that that's the case and I will tell you
as well that we are working on obtaining
such a device now this is the LED we
know aluminum case for the Raspberry Pi
4 and as I mentioned we have looked at
LED we know cases in the past I've been
very very pleased with them
this is a very nice aluminum case that
looks and doesn't that look interesting
hey so let's get a little further into
the box it's a little bit more in there
there we go so this is these are just
like non-slip pads for the bottom of it
and a screwdriver so let's open this up
you'll notice with the eyelid we no case
for the Raspberry Pi for there's a
couple of things of note here one is
that it is wall mountable do you see
these wall mounts yes so you can
actually hang this thing on the wall
also it has a touch sensor here that
allows you to control the the fans but
the fans are also thermally controlled
so as the Raspberry Pi 4 gets hot it's
going to increase the the speed of those
two fans right these are intelligently
controlled fans so let's get in here and
see what it what it looks like so the
screws are actually in here out of the
box there they are and there we have it
so you can see that this is not just
these are not just fans that are powered
by the GPIO these fans are going into a
controller circuit and that is going to
be connected to the Raspberry Pi fours
GPIO however it's much more
sophisticated than just direct like
power coming off of that and there we go
Raspberry Pi 4 is gonna go in there I
have not removed the SD card and it
looks like it's gonna just be a nice
snug fit look at that yeah
and I like the aluminum nature of these
cases as well because as we know
aluminum does what to heat takes it away
it kind of dissipates it and spreads it
out doesn't have how easy is this to
install it's very easy you don't even
need the instructions right in there
here if I need them I have them I'll
show those to Jeff after the show what
have you done all right there is one
thing in the instructions that I need to
know is how do I wire up this circuit
board
Jeff or Sasha maybe you have access to
that information ja do I have access
feel like do you close it before you
wire it all to get like oh there that's
it that's done okay I can see that
there's a little bit of a plastic film
on this so I'm gonna remove that if you
ever get a new electronic device and you
wonder why it looks scratched up it's
probably this plastic film yes so we did
okay yeah you put the look you
completely assembled it without plugging
in it there you go
done well here's the GPIO because
remember the GPIO the camera output the
SD card everything is accessible right
here but and I can see the camera
connector there right and what colors
how am I going to connect this now red
is to what red is to pin four and four
so here's my GPIO on the Raspberry Pi 4
so we've got pin 1 2 3 4 so pin 4 and
blue or black so so that's all there is
to it ok blue or black is connected to
pin 6 that is correct all right so that
should be all there is to it so what I
like about this look at how sleek this
is that looks I think so I like how Aled
we know has created a form factor that
is actually encased the Raspberry Pi for
ya and it's like very low profile I mean
the facts I mean the USB ports still
stick out above the keys yeah do you
guys see that look at that so she was a
little bit smaller the cable is kind of
three more cables and different colors
and just yeah can you push that in I
don't know maybe you could maybe if I
maybe if I paid more attention when I
was putting it together think about that
as you're putting it together maybe you
could make that a little more
streamlined but yeah you're right the
the cable does stick out when it's
plugged into the GPIO so that's like the
one like man
that was probably a design flaw if you
could say not really a flaw but they
could have made something that was a
little bit more baseline yeah straight
like flat but if that's the only issue
like come on yeah
really helpful if the cable is the same
color is the table really yeah does that
help like that touchpad you can control
the fence so what it's just a matter of
it's almost like a slider no no it's
just like a like a touch lamp Oh gotcha
see Oh touch right there yeah okay so
I'm gonna plug back in the ethernet okay
there it is so Ethernet is connected
Dassin that looks sexy I'm sorry guys
but that is sleep oh that's one waited
it looks nice isn't I like I mean I'm a
geek through and through but that looks
really nice yeah look at that and
there's the two HDMI micro outputs that
I was talking about yes
plus you've got the AV output still but
HDMI micro a little bit of a pain anyone
who has ever used HDMI micro if you're
using an adapter you're probably gonna
be hard-pressed to find an adapter that
will sit side-by-side with this instead
I would recommend that you find a cable
that has HDMI micro at one end and full
size HDMI at the other end I'm gonna
plug in the USB C which immediately
powered up these fans and it looks like
it's good to go now if I touch that you
see what happens Jeff yeah so that's
just a quick little tap now is that feel
like what is there a lot of vibration
there's no vibration whatsoever there's
no sound I'm gonna hold this right up to
my mic you guys can see that that's
right top of your head okay so there's
there's when you touch it I'm gonna
slide this down and come over to the set
if you want to bring us out to to the
wide shot there yeah
now when you touch the button to
activate the fans yeah did they like are
they gonna stay on permanently or will
the computer take hope they're gonna
yeah it's gone over the circuitry is
going to spin it up if it gets hot right
spin it down if it gets cold and and
it's going to
automatically adjust and worry about
like oh I turned it on I forgot to turn
it off it's not like that oh no no and
by default as soon as the Raspberry Pi
is powered up so if the power goes out
and you don't have a UPS or like a PI
Voyager from arms low connected to your
Raspberry Pi then it will automatically
turn back on the fans right so what say
we should run those same tests yes and
see how the thermals are affected on the
Raspberry Pi for having placed this in
the arm in the LED no case with the fans
hypothesize you think this is gonna work
this is going to run cooler oh I'm
really curious to know straight out of
the box stick around we'll be right back
[Music]
before the break we looked at the
Raspberry Pi 4 we ran it through an EM
stress test and we brought it to its
knees we got it really really hot to the
point where you know even touching it we
could feel that even the USB ports the
the Ethernet jack was really really hot
yes now we've put an LED we know case
this is an aluminum case with two
intelligent fans on the Raspberry Pi 4
and with this you know the question is
you know are we skewing results by you
know we had it off for three minutes
while we were installing it did that
make a difference I don't think it
really did I mean maybe like micro
amounts but fact is is that the system
is going to heat back up again as soon
as we hit that with an EM stress test
it'll be interesting to see if the
temperature reaches the eighty five
point six nine eight degrees that I got
before I'm really curious what was the
starting temperature of our test with
the with no heatsink no nothing it was
sixty nine point six to seven to sixty
nine point six two
so back at nems linux I can actually
type NEMS info temperature forty five
point two seven okay forty five point
two seven is what it is right now and
it's it's running yeah okay so that's
won't you don't need to write that one
down because that one's not a part of
our names stressed house fair enough so
the distress test has not begun but we
know we're twenty degrees cooler that's
a big deal that's huge
yeah forget the FIR the firmware update
that supposed to drop it by like three
degrees yeah so what so what is the
let's just say MEMS info frequency and
see we are at six hundred Hertz right
now that's where you start at six
hundred megahertz pardon me that's where
you started but flying new this the
other one was at 600 Hertz but by the
time we started the test it was already
running a one by five so yes it has made
a difference in those numbers as soon as
we run the stress test it's going to
immediately throttle up we're gonna see
that and again I can see that if we look
at our other in the next window here so
we see our current load average is zero
point one three
shall we begin our test yes so this is
on the Raspberry Pi four with the LED we
no case I'm gonna run nems
stress and here we go the stress test
has begun let's jump back over here and
we see that we are sitting at 100% CPU
usage now just because we want to do
this quickly Jeff NEMS
info temperature fifty five point nine
nine one already okay and averaging okay
so the Cisco fifty-six yeah and I can
actually type watch and I can see that
temperature change so fifty-seven point
four five see if that changes as the
stress test goes on fifty-eight point
and it's a you know it's fluctuating up
and down a little bit see that 59 point
four so we're hitting higher numbers now
I can also check the frequency in real
time and remember my stress test is
happening in another
okay so I'm sshd in using two different
windows here so I can type frequency and
see what I'm sitting at so I'm at 1.5
gigahertz so in pretty much immediately
it says okay there's a lot of stuff
happening let's crank up the CPU because
the raspberry PI's smart and says well
we don't need all that processor power
so we're gonna clock it down to 600
megahertz but as soon as you start the
stress test of course our base our base
speed is gonna be 1.5 gigahertz right
because that's the speed that it's gonna
clock to now one of the questions we had
in from Ameritrade when you were Ryan
Mayer droid when you were running the
first test yes is is NIMS checking the
speed of all of the SOC course no it is
not it is just no it is not the so what
he's asking there are four cores right
are we checking the thermals and the
speed of every single one of those four
cores to answer that question accurately
the only way to do that would be to look
at source code though okay so nano etcö
user slash local slash nem slash NEMS
script slash info dot h user local share
I miss the share share frequency and
that's pulling from CPU zero so could
that be different
let's ask about the speed and that is
the frequency okay so that's that's
exactly what I'm about to show you so
that test is still running here and
let's go back to this so we are only
looking at CPU 0 which is the first core
oh pardon me I need to cap that that is
sitting at 60 about 600 megahertz right
now interesting let's go to CPU 1 is it
1.5 ok it hurts CPU 260 600 megahertz
CPU 3 so you see how averages are
causing this to have us a different
impact
1 2 3 so that 0 1 2 0 1 2 3 is your 4
cores of the processor right so we have
there was three of them at 600 yeah at
that moment right because we're right at
the end of the test so the tests were
winding down and so three of the cores
had clocked back down to 600 megahertz
one of the cores was still running at
1.5 gigahertz but I think what you'll
find is in those instances it's going to
be clocked high so our lowest
temperature was forty three point three
to nine degrees Celsius Jeff how does
that compare to the Raspberry Pi without
the Allard we no case Jeff so we were
without the elevator was we're at
sixteen nine point six to seven as a
starting base yeah now as a factor of
variability into this it was running for
an hour
without that case but to be fair it was
only shut off for five minutes as we
exactly yeah exactly so I mean there
could be some variation but the little
that it started with the fans already
running and the aluminum cans already
cooling it down sure so it started a
little lower base fair enough but look
at that man it's 26 degrees less than
the base of the raspberry pi without
that case okay looking at the highest
temperature we're sitting well we hit
sixty one point three four eight degrees
Celsius sixty-one was the top
temperature of the raspberry patch is
less than the starting temp without the
case before that is worth it I would say
we got astounding that's cool all right
what else have we got here now slowest
speed if you will is 1.5 gigahertz the
maximum speed also 1.5 gigahertz it
never fell below 1.5 gigahertz now do
you guys want to touch this okay because
we've just run this through a major
stress test just like we did with the pi
before it should be significantly
different yeah it's
significantly different do you want to
feel this guy's I feel like I have to
because we felt it before
here they come I'm off the set yeah but
you can't see that that uh you know that
kind of just feels like pulling a wallet
out of your back pocket
yeah that's there's nothing there's
nothing no heat what so it's like cool
that's interesting how do you like that
so the Arduino case is aluminum and it
is it has the dual fans that are
intelligent that will spin up as it gets
hotter maybe that's why we're seeing the
dropped from okay we hit 77 and then all
of a sudden beam 48 how'd that happen
the fan said let's do that yeah let's
make this happen guys if there's a way
to log the fan rotations let's do all
these things folks let's do all these
things because that would be fun to see
like just going but graph that but maybe
you know a car engine where it's like
you're look you can't see the movement
it's going so fast but the difference
between you know 2,000 rpms and 3,000
rpms is a big difference what it still
looks the same
yeah and no sound no like no perceptible
vibration or anything like that and of
course the board itself is solid-state
so is the LED no case worth the extra
money that's a yes well I don't even I
don't want to say it I want you to say
it think about it for just a second is
it worth it yes yes accept accept oh
wait for this folks there wasn't a
problem and functionality with the last
one I got hot but it didn't change the
function mmm interesting point but by
keeping it cool or you're gonna prolong
life
sure you are that's but the other thing
we we didn't test we talked about it
with the first test is maybe it's where
it's been a sustained time frame of you
know five minutes or something that
we're gonna run this thing NEMS stress
is available on any mm server just edit
it make it lots of process this is for
you nems stress edit it folks
first thing how long do you want to run
it for Jeff ever I don't know like 15
okay that's all you need to change
that's all you need to change I'm
serious David I'm gonna write that out
I'm gonna run that dot slash names
stress running the test for grabs Linux
from Nimes Linux comm yeah if you want
to run the test on your own board I I'm
with I'm with Jeff on this one I don't
see any downside to the board I mean it
does cost you a little bit extra but you
are gonna you're gonna extend the life
of the Raspberry Pi and when you're
running something like an MS Linux
server if you want to use it as a
set-top box if you want to use it for
Plex Pi
for example even as a retro PI gaming
system yeah the cooler it can run the
better it's going to perform because
yeah there are other peripherals to that
get hot
think about the USB like it has USB 3
and you're gonna have a hard drive
connected to that because it's 10 times
faster than USB 2 right so you may as
well connect a drive to that and you
want the best performance but so it's
not just the CPU that's gonna be
affected by heat but also as Jeff
mentioned the longevity of the board
itself how long will it live and it
looks ok if you're gonna be a
responsible PI owner actively cool it
there it is folks that's the Raspberry
Pi 4 with the LED mean ok
