covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias FIFA game developer EA Sports
promises that the next-generation
version of FIFA 21 will feature new
technology to make it the most realistic
yet the FIFA series remains one of the
most popular video game franchises in
the world next year's entry will release
for both existing consoles as well as
the new Xbox series X and Playstation 5
but EA says the newer consoles will take
advantage of more advanced technology
despite regular criticism that the
annual game is often very similar to the
previous year's entry it had sold over
260 million copies as of 2018 EA says
its newest title will feature more
lifelike player movements which it says
will be the most authentic character
behaviors ever seen in sports video
games the next-generation editions will
feature significantly reduced loading
times and the PS 5 version will take
advantage of haptic feedback on the
consoles dual sense controller new
rendering and lighting techniques will
also help to increase the overall
realism of the game fans in the stadium
stands will also be more interactive
even participating in celebrations FIFA
21 will be released worldwide in October
before the new consoles launch the PS 5
and Xbox Series X versions with their
advanced features will be available
later but EA is off path to players who
buy the game on the previous generation
early sadly Nintendo switch gamers won't
get to experience any of the franchise's
new models or gameplay innovations the
lower powered portable console will
instead get a legacy edition release
that will include only new kits and
teams and an updated menu and overlay
system
ei has promised to reveal more about the
game in the coming months
[Music]
