coffee break time everybody it's
Thursday the 9th it is the 9th of April
2022 morrow being a holiday as a fan
tested looking forward to a long weekend
I can't wait because I still I'm still
coming into work every day right so Oh
but there's this like there's this you
know heaviness of you know everything
that's going on plus not being able to
get the studio set up and everything
else at least not the way you know not
not the way that we had planned with but
you can work on the studio though right
only me can work on this yeah okay by
myself so you can you can't even get the
contractor in nope oh yeah oh boy
okay no we have this recording it I
guess you will be recording against a
blank wall for a while for a little
while yeah unfortunately they called off
all non-essential construction in
material Canada so we're not allowed to
do any construction site however I will
be I've got a two inch hole saw I will
be putting a two inch hole through the
wall this weekend so that I can run some
cables oh boy I'm gonna look fancy it's
not gonna see but it'll get it'll get
the cables from A to B yeah let the
contractor fix it up later right lady
pretty lady emailed him in advance and
said you know if I do a two inch hole
saw through the wall to run some cables
through so that I can make sure the
studio for now are you able to patch
that up later I'm sure he can't because
all they'd have to do would be to patch
up the drywall but you drill through
yeah yeah now put it I'll put it down
along the baseboard as well so through
just don't drill through any
load-bearing you know studs or anything
like that okay I think I would notice if
I was suddenly
so why is this drywall so hard to get
yeah I had that well I saw that happen
once one of my buddies was doing some
renovations and he had a he had one of
those what do you call it the saw this
uh who thought so yeah so you have the
sawzall and he was cutting out he was
putting in a new door and cut right
through the electrical didn't even know
it was there
just explosive nature of electricity but
everything else yeah so who do we got
here we got bp9 at the top laughs we've
got Peter at the top right
I've got Ron Morissette down there on
the bottom left of course you can see
who's talking this is Robbie Ferguson
and oh look now ski from I married right
down at the bottom right
anybody hello I have gotten to the point
now with doing these coffee breaks and
the number of times the bow has joined
us where I can type look now ski without
having to look it up to make sure but
I've so I feel like I've I feel like
I've entered into a whole new realm of
geekdom that I can do that so I hope you
guys are proud of me
congratulation you take you less time
gonna take rosemary to learn how to do
it oh yeah hey to be fair how long ago
was it that you were here rosemary it's
been Oh several lanes yeah that's how
long it took me I was referring back to
that episode to get the correct spelling
and I noticed that if you but now maybe
this is another testament to my geekdom
if you google you pretty much I've
knocked everything else off of Google
and and everything has to do with
category 5 at this point so basically I
may as well start giving you a wage I
think kind of work here let me do a
little search here do a little search
for you
and let's see what comes up what do you
get I was using DuckDuckGo so it's not
the same as Google yeah the first thing
is agony right oh yes good good
what's the second thing
[Music]
criminal and court records go was
supposed to hide your stuff it hides
what you do trend doesn't hide results
yeah so mr. Bell I have a question for
you so just a real quick one more stuff
that you were showing off that that can
I can I buy them off you included in the
next box because I'm about to order some
stuff so speaking of I got a
notification that I've got a shipment
coming from a married right I just got
that notification last night all right
well question the question is are there
by any chance any gummy bears because
you always you always say oh you didn't
get gummy bears are there any gummy
bears there there should be gummy bears
there should be alright so the skills
and I'm going to open this on the copy
there's gonna be a there's give me
another little surprise about you know
it's about as exciting as coming bears
that's in your book as well oh boy oh
they know my name over there at America
right yeah in trouble you'll probably
you'll probably have a fun time no I
ordered mine though and it should be
shipping at some point when I get order
from us yeah
more exciting than goobers well you said
it would be a more exciting thing so
hens I mean I haven't really had a
chance to to get any gummi bears as of
late so you know I bought a I have a
jelly bean dispenser on my desk and I
have no loose change but it's it takes
coins and I I can't use them and so they
can't must say I saw that on your
Twitter probably so
so right now gummy bears oh you don't
need a coin for that I'd have to but I'd
have to mash my my thing in order to get
jelly glue my son made this and it has a
motion sensor under here so if you move
your hand over here then there's an
Arduino and a servo and and the M&amp;Ms
fall down that is too cool so all that
to say I would not be sad if I receive
some gummy bears what I'm gonna have to
pay in the import taxes and all that
stuff
who knows because you didn't pay for
those thanks Poe that's what it's like
to be a TV star Robbie
nice job well done this giant fridge
sized box arrives because I ordered a
single chip it's pulling full of gummy
bears yeah zero dollar value hey anybody
have some fun plans for the weekend I
know it's Easter weekend I am gonna be
researching more on the pine time
because I have them so I got the
Raspberry Pi set up I loaded up xfce for
because that's
the windows other window manager that I
prefer to use in Linux I don't like KDE
I'm sort of kinda like can known but
both of those like to like to have full
control over the background and I like
maintain myself which is like a gnome
2.5 right but the thing is again because
it's known it likes full control of the
background I likes to run X earth behind
in the background in the root window and
none of the KDE gnome or any of those
whatever version like for anything else
to draw on the root window and make it
visible but xfce does it has no problem
with that at all it's a lot simpler more
lightweight especially for the for the
laptops and such that perhaps are not as
powerful as that there's the desktop and
the graphics card is but for the
Raspberry Pi I had that all set up I
don't don't judge me I use visual code I
use your studio did you know it's not
I think visual studio is specifically
yeah
visual studio specifically the Microsoft
product but it works but but code is
what I specifically use and I've just
found that to to be a nice environment
to run in build the thing with a make
file that were you know all the projects
I use all bill would make file and it
just things to work so I have I have
discovered I believe the Pantone is 240
by 240 not 320 by 320 which is I found
conflicting documentation but there's
more documentation that says it's 240 by
240 versus 320 by 320 so now I can't
even remember where is anyway whatever
thinking is I I'm gonna activate the
touch sensor and then I'm gonna log the
touch code
and I'm just gonna touch the
bottom-right corner to see what it tells
me that the Geo chords are that I
touched sure yeah which I figured I
could 240 by 240 or whatever it is yeah
or I could try drawing 320 by 320 on a
240 by 240 and only see the top
two-thirds and oh yes do you mean oh
yeah that would work as well right that
would make for sure that would guarantee
for sure that it's a 240 by 2 for down
to like an inch and a bit right so it's
still gonna be you know a pretty nice
resolution for that term for that sized
screen so that's I've also discovered
you know by researching the Adafruit
libraries the Adafruit library looks to
be a more generic library that tries to
drive all kinds of different all kinds
of different devices yeah and and bs t77
whatever the display is is only one of
those devices and because it's so
generic it makes it mmm
I would rather just focus on that advice
so what I did is I followed the logic
fruit or what it takes to draw a line on
the screen and I discovered there is no
primitive function and I couldn't find
one when I was looking at the low-level
documentation there's no primitive
function for actually drawing a line
from point A to point B you actually
have to figure out which pixels have to
be now you know between this point to
this point and enable that pixel yeah
I've done that before though so I've
done that before it really is not a
problem so I say again bresenhem's
algorithm for graphics yes finally math
comes in handy there's a little bit of
sarcasm they're both doing spines and
cosines to try and figure out where all
those positions should be in the
on the clock French so you know it's a
same thing but my point is though that
term and in fact whoever was a bow that
mentioned that term algorithm I think
that was mentioned in the Adafruit
Library I think it actually said thanks
thanks Google for pointing out that
algorithm so yeah oh good okay nice
computer science and university is such
a long time ago
that we had to write our own GPU drivers
are on GPU libraries I mean there was no
GPU yet so our own KF Raven I've written
a project this is a private project
that's not one published but it it takes
I don't know if you're aware especially
you Robbie from Canada the the US every
10 years runs a census right and what's
what's probably not very well known is
that part of the data that's collected
in the census data is the lat/longs
of each segment of road in the entire
country so yes so every so whenever a
road curbs or anything like that there's
all that long from here to here then let
go from here to here that's so sigmat of
road are all the film is they have a
road in the country absolutely and each
of those segments are described in terms
of what kind of road it is is it an
interstate is that a country road is
that a county road is it a state road
the name of it all of that information
is all recorded unfortunately what's not
recorded is whether it's a one-way road
or not but the important point of all
this is that I wrote a program that
takes that census data which are
downloaded and recorded onto like five
CDs they took all that census data
loaded up into a relational database and
then built a program that takes the XY
coordinates every every one of those
roads every one of those segments
converts those to XY coordinates and
then draws
so it draws a map from the census data
remarkably accurate surprisingly
accurate but there is so much data that
it takes ages to draw especially if you
zoom out to the entire country and have
to retrieve the entire data set and draw
them but if you're zoomed into a very
close you know a very small area then
there's very little data to retrieve
because you're only pulling the lat/long
from that top left to the top to the
bottom right and picking up all the
roads that are inside that boundary so
big fines reminding me there's a project
right now there's a project right now
that's that I'm really starting to see
take off that is really kind of
intriguing is that they have and I say
they I'm not sure who I'm sure a Google
search will reveal it to you but they've
recreated the entire earth like the
continents in Minecraft and so there's
this project where wow people are people
are claiming cities so like somebody has
claimed New York and somebody has
claimed Paris and and so they're
actually like master builders who are
building the actual structures that
exist on earth as they are right now so
the the goal with this whole project
thinking about the scale of your geo
coordinates and everything it's like so
they've recreated they've already
finished the landscape all of the
continents the the topography of the
earth you can climb Mount Everest and
everything it has been done now they're
building the the actual structures like
the man-made so the natural stuff is
done the man-made stuff is being done
now which is just like there's some
videos on YouTube right now it's just
mind-bending what what they can do in a
video game like Minecraft what equity
that they that go to that about I don't
know the specific data Peter but I know
that they used actual map data in order
to generate the topography so it should
be pretty accurate as accurate as
something like Minecraft can be of
course it's made of
32 by 32 squares right yeah we're
talking about you know do we make you
that's one trick to the degree yeah it
wasn't good dignity great deed something
that 20 both yeah boy it is sorry I just
wanted to say that it is scale its to
scale so if you were to walk in the game
its KITT its to scale like it would blow
presumably take you just 1 meter right
the game I'm not sure is that right
that's I think that's that's for you yes
that makes that one up late that's true
minecraft that's well now here's the
thing that Robbie in mind in my test and
I'm sure I think it might be true in
Minecraft as well the the world is
generated procedurally from a seed that
is like a number that is like I don't
know 32 hitch bytes long or something
like that is that also true of Minecraft
and if that is true and did they come up
with a did they come up with a seed that
was as close as possible so they
wouldn't have to modify it or did they
just start with literally one block and
there wouldn't from there I think it's
more like what the seed does is it it
Auto generates as you enter regions of
the map because minecraft mind tests are
designed to be basically infinite worlds
so if you travel beyond the previously
generated area it will just use the seed
to generate a new area but it's pretty
much random right based on algorithms
and the seed but in this case I think
what they've done is they've taken
actual map data and converted it into a
pre generated Minecraft world so there
will be no seed generation on that map
because it's specifically generated by
the by the whoever designed the program
to convert an actual clothe the other
the other question that's my next
question if you keep walking in one
direction like yeah yeah
you got it is flatter right minecraft
minecraft' is flattering so we're
probably gonna see that where you know
yeah if you if you go beyond the the
edge of the map then yeah you'd probably
just either fall off or it would just
keep going into nothingness I would
expect because it is not going to be
globular it's not going to be a sphere
it would be it would be a flat surface
well the zero Meridian is is England
that's that's the Prime Meridian
Greenwich I believe so they're not going
to split that in half what they'll
probably do is split the most of what's
a thousand eighty degrees mostly ocean
or sea so they'll probably worst case
scenario split some islands or something
in half like this yeah but you know as
you draw it because if you don't go
round and you don't end up you know
falling off one and coming on the other
if that's hundred eighty degree Meridian
happens to pull in an island you're
gonna split that island you turn out it
will not be does it they go round it on
the real map down a degree boy they go
round the island one is one beaded on
one web to time yeah I guess it doesn't
matter whether they whether they stop at
180 degrees they could keep going to 190
degrees if they had to be perfectly that
what to do that just to compete and I'm
going on the assumption that it would be
flat but there's always the possibility
they could write mods for example that
would automatically create a an
appearance of continuation by the other
teleporting basically what about VD yeah
what about the northernmost and
southernmost latitudes because as you go
further north or further south those
east-west points are closer and closer
together that's the function that that's
what a glass how do you handle
is it going to be yeah is it going to be
equirectangular or is it going to be
now that's definitely true it'll be
interesting you have that problem with
aeronautical maps I mean the problem
that we have we had what we call
sectionals right and the problem is the
further north you go the the area
covered by the sectional at the
northernmost piece it's much less than
the area covered by the southern most
piece about Matt so it's actually I
think it's actually drawn you know
angular I think this is the ages of per
than able to account for that yeah to
try to keep the spacing somewhat the
same between the between the landmarks
yeah I'm having trouble forming words
today I don't know what the problem is
you know I know because you've got a
sphere and you're trying to put it onto
a flat plane so yeah early early map
drawers had to figure that out and now
it's gonna be the same thing for
Minecraft but mine a month they can
rescue yeah but they can't go
equirectangular because then if you were
at that northernmost spot what is
everything squished and in like so it's
right they have to figure out the math
behind luckily this math to do that
so yes spiracle formulas that lets you
get you a Great Circle distance and all
that good fun stuff which can yield some
surprising results because you expect to
go from like Canada to England then you
go over the North Pole because that's
the shortest that's the shortest path so
intriguing yeah yeah what else have I
been up to
I'm sure I've been up to no good yes I
I'm I just thinking as to their everyday
lives
Lazarus work on a John a lot my 13-inch
game this Easter joy leagues well for
now
I know nothing about windows I've got to
do today all the API work is a lovely I
mean I have another little experiment
during the weeks of break-ins if I could
find out long did our vibes like they
supported unstable you know but I've got
a the a pilot of Windows which makes
guys that we be typical could you go and
do well you could or windows but obvious
ones they're not would you raise
educated our my from my laptop already
I hoped I've got Ben vo to work with
well after their struggle with it I just
gathered you could earn money from that
back dead in from the back home you have
to run it from the - come on no loads of
grip phone just running from any work or
business angel address as well possessed
revision Lazarus I discovered very runny
one bit I discovered what what didn't
work whitey beep enemy cities anything
apart or not them but you have to run
the three parts and when he wanders the
about it works good well well done who
troubleshooting that Peter yeah a job
that that's part of the fun I think of
Linux too is that you get to like when
things don't work you can get in the
terminal and try to figure it out run it
from the terminal and see what's
actually going on so yeah okay yeah
bulge better little I know my job in no
magic read on minutes oh yeah be allowed
here without cuz I'm the window on the
time off yeah I am Windows without it oh
that's bad never better terribly for
myself
yeah I got gigabyte of a with terabytes
of data
Fleming data we devote earnings I was
about twenty years because I thought I
was the operation in 2001 when they do
to have came down when the two dads came
down I love the operations X at the same
time I end up from now on
it is a fabric paint alone I would
probably going to this time we elected
every tie figuring things out and I
don't have time I'll get water produce
come helicopter but anyway you you
probably also may have to do that cuz
I'll never publish anything I love to
brag I'd never publish an over oh yeah
I've found github has been a wonderful
place for me because it gives me a
chance to not only share my my programs
Peter but I like that then I have a spot
where I can kind of keep track of my own
progress so as I do
edits to the software if I screw
something up I can go back and fix it
much more easily because it works as
like project management as well well
that's that that I do from a Linux
command line there's the git command so
it's just learning the basics like get
cloned get whole get get push origin
master and I can list those out for you
if you want like the just the basic
stuff or you know why I'll probably do a
feature on the on the TV show
although the basics of get I don't know
that would be a good way yeah it's not
it is a little bit complicated if you
you know if you get into the tutorials
and stuff because there's a lot you can
do with it but really for me like that
just knowing the basics of get really
really helps me to be able to do my
project management so I'll do it I'll do
a show for you Peter and we'll talk
about that I'll give you a tutorial okay
my pleasure I'll put it on the list you
should not be surprised that I maintain
my own server I'm not surprised at all
and some people will say github oh
that's owned by Microsoft what is Robbie
doing well it wasn't always owned by
Microsoft and all my repos are already
there and and you know I they are doing
a fine job of running it they've
actually opened it up more
you know they I can have private
repositories for free now you never
could do that before you had to pay for
it so so you know they're they're doing
some good for open source that's for
sure
so I am conscious of the of the fact
that whenever I published my repo to
github that everything goes that means
all the stupid comments that you put in
here and all the sudden get ignored oh
absolutely but my point is that whenever
you check in to even your own git
repository there's any possibility that
you might published it somewhere yes
you've been or that you stayed
professional in all your comments and in
all your code alternatively
alternatively use your comments in your
code as Easter eggs for those who
actually read the source yeah
some of my comments are a little bit off
the law fun having you guys here it's
time for us to wrap up so have a
wonderful day I will see you tomorrow I
do not have to go to work tomorrow so
I'll probably be home or maybe at the
studio I don't know but I'll be here so
we'll see you at tomorrow's coffee break
take care everybody
you
