welcome to the coffee break everybody
it's Saturday the 18th of April 20 20
nice to see everybody I see soul boo I
see Ron Morissette and presumably your
wife Ron I don't know that your name
Eleanor yes hi Eleanor I see I see bp9
as well hey bp9 and bill bill bill can
you hear us
no bills having trouble being able to
hear us today so if he if he seems to be
like looking around like he's lost he's
probably just trying to figure out the
audio settings we can hear him but he
can't hear us
bp9 who's thinking bill I poured myself
a coffee in this particular mug as a
reminder to let you know that Andrew
Andrew Lloyd Webber is broadcasting the
25th anniversary stage production of the
musical on YouTube this weekend so it's
a limited time thing it's for 48 hours I
think in the UK and 72 hours in the rest
of the world I believe because of
copyright so I posted the link to that
under I think I forget what the videos
channel is on disk or to things called
like interesting videos where channel on
discord if you click on there it's the
last video that I posted but it is
limited it's only this weekend if you
want to see the stage production which i
think is cool because growing up being
such a fan of the Phantom of the Opera
as a child having seen that Pantages
Theatre when I was in grade 6 and then
like following the musical four years
after that I always wanted to have a
recording of the the actual stage
production rather than the movie the
movie came out and that was something
but it wasn't as good so it's nice to
see a proper produced staged version of
the show so that's really cool I went to
see it in a smaller theater so it was
hello as logistics as it were
painting in one of the larger theaters
and I did get the original CD of the
original cast
Rick so with but not original Canadian
or UK this was a UK I believe okay
yeah I can't remember I can't remember
his name
I would as soon as I as soon as I hear
it I know here no that wasn't the right
one
no Kevin from Ireland was was the
Phantom here in Canada okay talking a
bit and I'm trying to find the CD and I
don't I just don't see it I want to say
Kevin there Brian there so yeah but it's
like I can't think of it hi Peter Peter
is still with us Peter you were meant to
be on like a medical leave of absence
from the coffee break and and here he is
once again it's good to see you I I
could I told was a big gypsy and old
auntie of a kind advantage to for any
equipment antastic I'm glad to hear that
another I got other problems a body
might window for shame doesn't recognize
my mixer if I'm so women obtain disc it
doesn't recognize it yeah you are the
only way I could do it if it's the wind
seven and up ground anybody got an ill I
did good on me Peter are you talking
about like your samba shares on the
Ubuntu server yeah yeah yeah okay that's
the first thing that comes to mind
because Windows 10 deprecated samba 1.0
so you'll need to go into your your
settings and enable that otherwise you
won't be able to access those network
shares on Windows yeah I do do that you
did that you did that
off the top of my head it's a window
setting do it I could do a Google search
for ya and post the link but just do a
search for an
Abell samba 1.0 windows 10 and I'm sure
you'll come up it's like it's just a
checkbox that you need to enable and
windows features you know enable enable
samba 1.0 windows 10 and I think it's
just in Windows Features like if you
just go through the list of Windows
Features it's disabled by default
yeah yeah it's strange because mine
works perfectly well you may have like
our version on the on the server maybe a
newer version of samba like you might be
using CIFS on your on your server but
like some some older Ubuntu servers will
have samba 1.0 it's a little excited
it's been yeah so we're talking like a
five-year-old OS no no that wouldn't
open you know it's a lever that will be
yeah that's five years old okay
yeah sixteen represents 2016 was the
yeah yeah with a boon to their naming
convention so 1604 is April 2016 was the
release day yeah so that would have gone
into development in 2015 16 point 10 is
October's release for 2016 well that's
why the the coming version is 20 point
oh four because that's the April release
of the 2020 version of Ubuntu take a
good eye out great depth of okay do you
think you could but it's a bit of a
process because you'd have to go to 17
with 17 the LTS you go to 17 and every
second there even numbers okay so you
could go from 16 to 18 and then to 20 so
you'd have to you'd have to go through
to upgrade processes Peter which yeah
you can do that but you probably like
there's a very high chance of running
into into issue that one is dying
yeah that extends beyond the ability to
diagnose over a coffee break cuz I this
is supposed to be my break man really a
you just can't escape it my my boss so
the guy who owns the company that I work
for
he owns a place in Belize and they when
they moved there they decided you know
what we are not gonna tell anyone that
we own a computer company not like good
move you get a small town like an island
and they find out that you're a computer
guy and suddenly that's it you're at the
grocery store oh can I just ask you a
question about my Ethernet found the
t-shirt on a t-shirt website somewhere
yeah it's it no I will not fix your
computer
Peter Peter can use and you check the
chat I sent you a link thanks Bill no I
suppose suddenly can hear us this is
good I didn't even when I was into Nick
Nick
I worked on copiers every time they
found out that I worked on people will
found out I work on copiers they used to
complain about you sorry Billy I about
found in there what did you say if you
go to the chat and zoom yeah I sent you
a link I do get that maybe just might be
posted on this coat oh yeah pop it on
your own accord might be here what I
haven't got disco dard-e-disco glad for
me as well and we are opening a can of
worms here guys don't get it started
don't start you're thinking of mark
you're thinking of Michael Crawford
aren't you Michael Crawford yes I think
Kevin Monroe I know it's easy to forget
but yeah yeah yeah you that name because
it was hard to believe because he's a
median and him yeah he was in a lot of
English comedy shows him do a serious
role like Phantom of the Opera and so
fantastically well
yes excited who sent me an email and my
zero of the exit page Netcom agenda the
links to their I did why'd you do it do
it that way bill I will gladly forward
the link to Peter for you just remind me
so today my day consists of ok so I'm
taking my coffee break because I've
earned it and then today yeah and then
today I'm heading to I'm gonna head to
the studio probably bring my daughter
with me just keep me company and start
setting up because Wednesday is the show
but I also have two interviews tomorrow
a broadcast for you do you remember do
you guys remember Jen Jen wagger from
new every day not sure if you ever
watched that Jen's Jen's in the same
situation as so many other people in the
world where her church can't hold their
their services so she was looking for a
way to be able to do virtual service so
she's gonna actually be at the studio
tomorrow morning and then and then I've
got two interviews following that for
Wednesday's show and then I got to be
ready for Wednesday so a lot to a lot to
do in the next couple of days
plus I'm working full-time on Monday so
and the control center it's at the point
Book Pro that you have in yes yeah sure
is
[Music]
it's a beautiful little device it has a
price to 200 bucks bucks for that with a
full 1080p screen unreal so I like it as
a terminal like I just remote and I'm
actually looking at the screen at the
studio right now so that's the studio
broadcast server mm-hmm so it's just
very convenient good Wi-Fi so just take
it around cool I don't know I don't know
me where mom's going
yeah who's lost what I don't know what
she's doing but yeah yeah blocking me in
so I can't get out or when I gotta go to
the studio that's how she keeps me here
she moves the band behind my band
[Laughter]
what's that Peter it takes being Boyd
outdoor I know I have this idea but if
they but it was I think you know what
you do Peter here's here's a here's an
answer for you just quick and fearful
boot up boot up the Ubuntu 20 point oh
four disc when it comes out just boot it
up don't install it just boot it create
a Samba share like a network share and
then try to access it from your Windows
10 machine and if it works if it works
then you know that the to the five years
between they've improved something or
increased a version of something that is
fixed it for you and then that answers
the question should you upgrade and that
will fix it locking me in oh I see the
Sun it's so sunny the Sun is reflecting
off the van that's what's happening
oh yeah it's a nice day very vp9 you
were gonna say something I was just
gonna talk about the pond time some more
have been doing some nothing serious
this monkey curry that's a win it's when
this thing actually arrives he's gonna
hold it in his hands and he won't know
what to say I know like I know I've
already I've already told you everything
there is to know but it's here come on
give me a break but I will say just to
let you know Robby I think you should be
aware I think it was two or three days
ago two or three coffee breaks ago you
mentioned the way to figure out if the
screen what the resolution of the screen
was you're not gonna touch the screen at
the bottom right hand corner yeah get
the XY coordinates of that touch event I
don't know if you realize this but the
the capacitive touch portion is actually
a separate component from the screen and
mainly it's not it's not built into the
screen I think it's I think it's a piece
that goes over the screen and it it may
use different coordinates to I know
exactly what you're saying so the X Y is
not necessarily representative of the
pixels correct to warn you about that
because yeah I in the documentation that
shows up as as two separate devices now
they may then you may address them as
two separate devices I don't know what
the screen looks like it does appear
though that they are two separate W you
know they come together to make the unit
so what if I was just just because we
can
and just cuz it might be a little bit of
a fun experiment what if I was to put
the pine time once it arrived fire up
the screen and just make it white or red
or something and then use my
electromagnet Oh microscope and actually
look like count the pixels across
well why not right well you could do
that yeah go for it absolutely let's do
that cool
I will use that lost count halfway
through the disk you'll be able to keep
track totally try that it will come
pre-installed with a with an app already
installed on it you should be aware of
that and ok apparently allows you to get
your your um a heart rate and your blood
pressure
I could according to the screenshot that
I've seen yeah I know and I want to see
if it does that now that app is closed
source the author will not able source
for that so I don't know how to make I
haven't even looked yet at the Stata
Center to see how to make it pull heart
rate or blood pressure so we'll have to
see what that does so yeah I think the
key thing with that too is that it
doesn't have to be app stuff like it
just has to log the data and then you
just have to have a more powerful system
to import and aggregate that it's true
but as a think I've mentioned before
this particular device works much like
an Arduino in that you don't load
individual apps into this device you
have to yeah the right height of that by
a single program that runs as an
executable on that device and it and
then that program has to deal with
everything so so let's do like every 30
seconds let's record the data in a JSON
file or something sure from the sensor
and then we now have it sync with either
an app on the phone or a Raspberry Pi
running a JavaScript app or something
that pulls that data yep remember that
the pine phone which is what I'm hoping
to pair this with is running Linux so
any any tools that we can build and
ranks should work with the with the pine
cone that would be my aim right
and they stasis the smartband takes hot
rate every 10 minutes I think it is or
every 30 minutes something like that and
Cory lecture every hour yeah yeah see I
my that's the trigger that I train no my
the mine yeah I have to actually
initiate the the the blood pressure
monitor now the heart rate know why
you're waving so boo but hello oh hi
mini Marsh I wasn't watching the screen
how are you guys doing hi there okay
good good
oh man I just mini much I just pushed
the button and Nick just gave me a my
reading right you can do that on demand
Robby
but it will also it will also with that
you with that showing up there display
or anything like that or at least yeah
mine goes but a blood pressure you have
to you have to have your arm at the
level of your heart in order for it to
be accurate there so it doesn't make any
sense for it to be running automatically
every thirty seconds because then you're
gonna get inaccurate measurements every
time you're walking with your armor yeah
that's true and especially if you move
around a lot it will loan that which I
obviously yeah check the H band app and
you'll find that there is a history page
on that app and you'll find that you're
you're a smart band is dumping its data
to the H band app every you know oh yeah
hour or so yeah and the H band that will
I think the I think the smart band holds
about four days worth of data then it
rolls off oh I see okay yeah you got a
sink way quick web well big guy choice
it works on the laptop when he won't
work on the dead dolly
it does its job these films you know
what your best to do peter is probably
like post the question I saw you posted
it did you post it in disk or
yeah just because this is this is our
coffee break we're not here to do
technical support that's all but I want
to see you get it work and that's all so
like and things will be a lot different
when the show's back too because then I
can do things like features and helping
you with stuff on air it's gonna
remember to follow them the link in my
email address it's a guy with oh is that
cool Peter I'm gonna send you the link
that that that bill found for you okay
and III can eat the white chain it
bunches like Jane at the moment I love
just and the link for that okay okay I
don't know too much about their job need
young today yeah yeah I think it's just
a versioning issue that's all a version
issue of the sharing Damon yeah which is
called Samba or CIFS on Linux on Windows
they still call it well they call it SMB
on Windows so Windows 10 deprecated the
old version which causes you to lose
access to your old Linux server
you just got to enable that yeah hey can
I show you guys something that I think
is gonna save the the show a lot of
money yes I found this and I'm really
really excited about this because one of
the things that we need to do we've got
six new LED lights for the for the new
studio because you remember the big soft
boxes that we use their massive right
and they take up a lot of floor space so
I got some LED light panels that are
about this big they have 6,000 LEDs each
and they're gonna be hanging from the
ceiling but traditionally so looking at
photos and everything of other studios
what they do is they build a trust
system out of PVC or metal piping that
kind of thing and with that trust they
then use C clamps to mount the lighting
even C clamps alone for 10 C clamps is
like 60 bucks the truss work I imagine
is going to cost at least a couple
hundred bucks for the hardware plus the
person to the contract would actually
sure it mount it so you know you're
looking probably several hundred dollars
just to create this thing to mount our
lighting and then I came across these do
you guys see that what it is it's it's a
butterfly clamp that clips to the drop
ceiling oh so it clips on to the metal
portion of the drop ceiling and then it
has the the proper type of mounting for
the lighting so it's actually built or
that you cannot hang much white on that
Robie thing you can put you can counter
that by putting a wire between so inside
the drop ceiling you mount it up to the
truss work just like I did at studio D
with the camera right but look at the
price can you make that out oh seven
goals seven dollars that'll be us so
those you wish okay yeah seven dollars -
I was going to say seven dollars
Canadians like 30 cents an American yeah
really
so like for 50 bucks I'll be able to get
those and like enough for all the
lighting and and then it just clips and
then there's no damage done for the roof
there's no changes made to the unit
it's nice and simple so I can mount that
but is it is it safe enough that you you
know that nothing's likely to fall
that's probably the biggest concern
right yeah the LED lights vp9 are so
lightweight like they're they're just
they're this thick they're in this big
and they pump out just as much
brightness as those great big honking
things so yeah remember Leo Laporte was
there talking about how they did it in
the cottage they had before the brick
studio I am they rented an old house and
they were not allowed to put a single
nail or a single screw in the walls so
they have so they had a lot of cameras
and all of the lighting and
all around and he was still describing
how one of the interns a lady a I don't
remember her name and she made a design
system with the pipes going all around
and they hang there and they did what
you describe as your initial plan until
they came up with that right so that's
pretty traditional
yeah the Hank hanging truss system is
pretty traditional like if you do a
search for studios that seems to be the
way to do it but this is gonna save so
much money and it's gonna do the exact
same job noise yeah now you've got the
drop ceiling so you've got those tiles
hold those files those roof tiles yes
just lift them to hook the thing in is
that how it works well the metal piece
that the tiles are sitting on yes this
clips on to that metal piece okay they
don't even know the tiles to make up no
no reason on it sorry
yeah so is that kind of limit your where
you're able to place the lighting yes
but considering it's ten feet up in the
air and you're using shutter doors to
control where the lighting goes it's
like you're gonna have I'm gonna have
it's it's gonna be flood right it's not
like a direction it's not directional
spots or anything like that these are
floods so as long as it's up in the air
and back far enough it'll it'll just
fill the room with light that's all we
need mmm and then enough of them that we
don't have shadows good yeah so we'll
see how that goes I'm excited too
everything that I've been ordering is
taking longer than it's supposed to so
it's always like my shipment that was
supposed to be here Friday didn't arrive
so I'm like oh oh that's again and I
didn't get the the Power Distribution
unit for the server rack so I don't have
power in the server rack still so one
question a very quick question about
that I
we've mentioned this before but if
you're feeding boards that are 5 volts
and 12 volts instead of using a laptop
power supply haven't we've talked about
using a switching power supply
cannibalized from a PC enclosure haven't
we and that is that that will give you
12 volts and 5 out of exactly the same
plan yeah yeah they're actually the same
plug the issue with that is that then it
would have to be an external power
supply that is an ATX power supply
because it's a 1u server right well your
brick is an external power supply - is
it not yeah but it's like a it's a nice
you know like a power cord from a laptop
so it's just a barrel plug going into
the side of the server so I'll just have
to barrel jacks on the back that I just
plug in - done and done
versus having to put an ATX power supply
on top with a big ATX cable coming out
of it what about using the devil knew
it's normally used in servers I could
but it's so expensive that's all so you
know I can get a step down for get it
and get a step down for just a couple of
bucks right versus having to go with a
what do they call that PTX power supply
for you know so something no idea
it's ie ATX yeah cuz it's it's like
really really tiny right plus they're
only like I don't know well I guess
they'd have enough wattage that'd be
like 300 Watts
but that'll be between I don't know how
it would be divvied I don't know I just
think it's a good way to do it but
definitely a valid point bp9 I think
that's a good slimmer than 2000 scenario
when edge will vote for they laugh
that'll work and then they go for voters
a like that as well yeah but you could
put the drive the guy it does back
underneath um like would you that exact
if they figure and thinking one corner
somewhere
yeah I just like the I just like the
cleanliness of just having what I'm
actually planning to do is have one
blank expansion slot on the back like a
PCI expansion slot so I'm gonna drill
two holes in there and put five
millimeter barrel plug inputs and then
and I can just plug in power supplies
and and they're just nice neat power
supplies that I can just have on the
floor below so I think it'll work really
that's not that's not the Power
Distribution unit that I'm waiting for
though that's nothing not related at all
my enemy in game and also a look at
what's in that boat and Lobster and I
love to a desire that give me 20% of the
next week and that's what's happened is
that the Power Distribution unit so vp9
that's the actual like strip bar for the
19-inch rack that I plug all the servers
into not this single board computers the
actual like rack servers and routers and
switches and everything that didn't
arrive so I think someone stole that out
of the post and but it never got here it
got stolen out of the like out of the
depot so they are shipping another one
no car and no cost but pain in the butt
cuz I gotta wait another month so sorry
bill what were you gonna say I still
have I still haven't recycled my Devil
2950 I could yank the power supply is
that is that one you you're 2950 that's
a to you isn't it I don't know it's a
big box yeah thanks man yeah that that I
believe is a full the 2950 I believe is
a to you with a full sized no they're
like a hot swappable dual aren't they
yeah yeah so they're like a tray that
you pull out on that one so I don't I
don't know that I would have a use for
those I actually just he wasted a 2950 I
didn't know what to do with it it's just
been sitting because it's got the
old-style
SAS interface not not the SATA
compatible
so I can't even I don't even want to try
to get drives for it no you're just so
hard to please Robbie we're doing all we
can to try and help yeah yeah I sent you
those came out of 950 no yours is a
different back plane than mine okay my
that's what I'm saying my back plane on
the 2950 is the old-style SAS then you
have the dome 50 - no that the drive
that you sent me went into the the r7 of
the r6 1000 r5 r5 20 or whatever it is I
forget yeah so though that was
compatible because it's the SATA style
sass yeah you do have the you have the
2950 version one I had the Persian -
it's the old old old interface yeah yeah
it was horrible you can't get drives for
it and the trays are not available and
the drives are so small like 72 gigs and
it's like it's just it's just holding up
space at this point so that one was but
yours it's got the upgraded controller
so yours is much more usable than mine
okay yeah okay I was like you probably
everybody but I was like it's better and
that is it they made to lose the bugs
about to have and after they know if
they please send it again it comes back
to me today
Johanna try it they give me 20% oh yeah
you were saying that yeah and that's
lucky that they can get it to you
quickly
unfortunately the Power Distribution
unit that got lost that I ordered takes
a month to get here so I waited a month
for the first time it didn't arrive I
gotta wait another month for this for
the daily does god I could do the Bell
by him why a bit more notice the mask is
gone because my coffee is no longer hot
guys
that's the sign don't forget Phantom of
the Opera is is available this weekend
only on YouTube
I'm totally guys I have a have a good
one and I'll see you again tomorrow a
bank robbery by
