[Music]
a plant-based pork substitute has been
launched at CES by one of the leading
alternative meat producers a food
product unveiled at the CES tech show
you betcha
there's some serious tech involved in
creating this sustainable alternative to
meat the new product contains no gluten
animal hormones or antibiotics and is
designed to comply with kosher and halal
rules the firms sausage and plant-based
pork products a similar to ground beef
substitute are made using heme a
molecule derived from plants that
contains iron and resembles blood heme
is found in real meat but can be
produced without farming animals
impossible foods founder and chief
executive Patrick Brown says they're
expanding products of size of their
extended expanding product line quote we
won't stop until we eliminate the need
for our animals in the food chain and
make the global food system sustainable
unquote beyond that impossible pork
contains around half the calories of
sausage meat and is also significantly
lower in fat until recently China was
home to around half the world's farmed
pigs but millions of them have died or
been cold due to the spread of the
African swine fever a viral disease that
infects pigs and has no known cure
pork is Hieu in huge demand in Asia
China alone produces and consumes more
of the meat than any other country
impossible foods say that there's that
synthetic pork product will suit a
variety of Asian dishes that's
interesting we're we're at that point
where like I think I said on a show
years ago
won't it be neat when they can
synthesize right and they're here they
are in that that tricky little spot
where they're just about to tip right
over into molds and decide station I
can't speak but but what's weird about
it
from a technology standpoint is that
it's like meat like it's not like ground
mushrooms
held together with gluten right that's
where I have a hard time so I don't eat
meat but I don't eat meat because I
don't like meat until I okay
so that's different from the ethical
sustainability perfectly whereas like
people who want to eat healthier or want
to hmm to tread light or less right I'm
happy that all of those things are
happening in my life but that's not the
reason I don't eat meat okay
so once they're able to do bacon I think
that that's the point when everybody in
this whole world is going to be like and
everyone who says but they have
vegetarian bacon but it's not I can tell
you that because I like the vegetarian
bacon and I don't like bacon
so that means bacon no I do like I on
the other hand eat meat yeah but but
I've tasted a lot of these alternatives
yeah have you tried the impossible
burger does anyone sell it yes plenty of
places including grocery stores any
restaurant example I think then what's
the one I think the one that I've tried
is beyond burger not impossible brats
that's why they end up yours
yeah and W has them have you tried it
mm-hmm and it was good but it was
tougher than beef they didn't have a
nice soft like beef tenderness it was
tougher like it seemed gluttonous to me
okay
so put that so I yeah it was good but I
wouldn't go out of my way to buy it
personally but if you were a vegetarian
or a vegan and they did an alternative
then that's a reasonable alternative and
I mean if in China they're having a big
pork shortage this is it and they use
full flavor dishes right so I think that
really just membership mimicking the
texture is probably all it's not always
needed like I mean if you have some soup
and you want to just have like a couple
of meaty chunks in it like throw in some
pork alternative whatever what I want to
know though is how did it end up at CES
because of the technology right what
Technol
to know more about it that I want to
know me
go on me no mean I'd like it meat good
bacon good how you do that how did you
exactly like what is it about the tech
that makes this happen because Jeff they
clearly it's science there's a tech that
pulls a specific thing out of plants
that is produced by the same thing that
comes out of meat like that and it's
like they're creating synthetic meat
from plants what happens but it's that's
what I mean by it's different from
ground-up vegetables right
together with blue it's not like
texturized vegetable no it's like it's
like me it's like in a lot of ways like
it's very very similar that's where I
they're getting to that point I still
want real bacon it's like the petri dish
that this is not but like when we've
talked about the petri dish meat that is
grown in a dish that has never actually
been an animal yeah it totally does from
a sustainability standpoint though I do
understand that there's too much factory
farming going on I understand that yeah
and you know for health sake I'm gonna
like eat healthier I'm not I'm still
eating me but I'm not eating as much
right unhealthy stuff
I just don't cook my eggs on my bacon
grease anymore perfect
