welcome to category five technology TV
this week we're going to learn how to
use PHP as a command line programming
language on your Linux operating system
also we're going to be talking a little
bit about where we should go when it
comes to our external storage devices
decisions because right now we're at a
very strange time when it comes to USB
3.0 X stick around live recordings
interested only to solid-state drives by
Kingston technology revive your computer
with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 TV welcome
to the show everybody this is episode
number 635 of category 5 technology TV
before we get right into the show
tonight I want to remind you to
subscribe to us on youtube and also
click the bell to be able to receive the
notifications anytime we are live or
when we post new videos this week as you
probably heard if you were watching on
episode number 634 we were hoping to get
started on our server upgrade this week
with regards to our storage server we've
got some fantastic at data center drives
from Kingston Technology to put into our
our server and unfortunately that is
going to be a little bit more time
consuming than we had been able to a lot
this week apparently what I've been
learning is that it takes a little while
to transfer 13 years worth of video
content from one array to the other so
where we're actually moving that over to
January 8th make sure you here for that
show this week we're gonna be talking
about a couple of different things
for one thing later on today we're gonna
be talking about how to use PHP as a
console language as I mentioned at the
top of the show there and a little
dilemma for you as we get into the show
this week a dilemma that I posed on
Twitter is what type of external storage
should we be investing in or looking at
as far as the the technology goes for an
ass or for an local on-site data backup
for example so my question on Twitter
was all right storage gurus I have a
computer with USB 3.0 and it supports
you ASP that's USB Attached scuzzy
protocol so full disclosure of course on
the tweet I didn't say this but the
system that I'm actually hoping to set
up is an Odroid xu4 so consider that for
a second a no droid xu4 is a single
board computer a little tiny thing that
would fit in my shirt pocket but it has
you ASP compatible USB 3.0 built into
that single board computer so what that
means is I can save and access data
connected to that you ASP port at bit
rates of up to five gigabits per second
almost the throughput of an SATA hard
drive which is six gigabits per second
so imagine the speed of that so a little
single board computer an external array
that supports maybe four or five SATA
hard drives and thinking about that as
an ass solution so that we can create
something that is ransomware
basically protected against ransomware
so that data backups are not able to be
touched by a ransomware infiltration and
also just to have a mass storage unit
that is available for for cloud access
for data backups and things like that so
that's my little like that's what I'm
talking about as far as the device that
I have and what I'm hoping to accomplish
so my question and my dilemma that I
posed to Twitter is this for my external
storage purchase would you go with a
unit that supports so this is the
external unit would you go with a unit
that supports USB 3.0 with you ASP but
also includes eSATA think about that for
a second or would you for the same price
switch over to a unit that has USB see
USB 3.1 again with you ASP so what's the
difference USB 3.0 with you ASP will
give you five gigabits per second but
that device will also give you a eSATA
so that means the most amount of devices
at the maximum speed eSATA will give you
six gigabits per second or USB see USB
3.1 will give me ten gigabits per second
there have only been two replies so far
I just posed the question on Twitter
perhaps Jeff Sasha could Jeff could you
take a stab at the first one for me so
these are some of our viewers that have
replied to this dilemma yes so by the
way I love this question because I'm
literally looking at doing it this at
home right now with my Odroid xu4 I
gotta say like we're just at that time
where the technology is is shifting and
it's progressing so quickly but do I
like because I could use a USB 3.1
device plugged in to you ASP the USB 3.0
port using a USB a to a USBC adapter
right or a cable that has those two ends
but I'm going to lose the eSATA port
so do I throw away the eSATA port Jeff
or do I what do I do so what is the
community tell okay so no man five says
go with a 3.0 with eSATA there's more
options in case of future replacement or
failover okay and I'm thinking not only
like just the the diversity of devices
but also like okay I have USB 3.0 on my
laptop so I can plug it in and have like
full five gigabits per second on that or
I can plug it into my server which has a
six gigabit eSATA port so then I'm
getting six gigabits per second so I've
got this real universal compatibility
going on and and really do I need more
speed than that for Nass
that's the question Sasha do you have
another comment from our yes Rock says
USB 3.1 gen2 will give you a much more
future proof product okay fair enough
right okay so this is the latest and
greatest technology ten gigabits a
second it's faster but no you know eSATA
port I've split down the middle here
folks 5050 first whitter goes in this
case I think I would have to agree with
no man okay
expand upon that why well so no man says
we want to go with the eSATA and USB 3.0
we're gonna be throwing away four to
five gigabits per second throughput but
we're gonna have that eSATA port so that
we've got that maximum compatibility and
remember that USB 3.0 you can still plug
it into a USB 3.1 device it's gonna be
forward compatible you're just never
gonna get that 10 gigabits a second
right and I think if you're gonna be
running you know you're at home Nass or
whatever through something like a no
droid yeah I think having greater
flexibility is is the safer approach in
case something goes awry I mean if you
were building an at-home server that was
more stable as far as like it's a bigger
unit like you know everything that's
going into all the components I think
going to three point one is though is
the way to go but something like a
you're really not helping me here you're
keeping it divided Jeff I come on I need
I need a definitive answer I'm gonna go
discord what do you think that's where
you're going which way you just you just
suggested both Jeff
well Albuquerque turkey is saying isn't
USB 3.1 gen2 the current name for 10
gigabit ps4 sugar per second and USB 3.1
gen2 old USB 3 which makes no sense to
me to be clear but does it so what is it
what what does it mean as far as these
devices go we've got a 3.0 five gigabits
a second with eSATA I mean it's really
ok it's an are we at that point where
the technology is shifting and so it's
like do we want to be so future ready to
be USB C 3.1 gen2 or to put it into that
context but do we need that or do we go
with eSATA Jeff what do you think I
think because you're running it through
an SBC a single board computer yeah like
I I don't think the three point one is
the way to go I mean it's great to be
future ready but we are talking about an
SBC that is so quickly going to change
yeah I mean I suppose if you're looking
at it from the standpoint of well I'm
gonna be get a new SBC in a year for
sure then or what if you what if you
suddenly flipped it on his head and said
you know what I'm gonna get a I'm gonna
put a PCI Express USB 3.1 gen2 a card on
a pine 64 rock pro 64 then all of a
sudden you've got a single board
computer with USB C right and does it
suddenly say okay well now we just want
the speed so maybe we're getting into
the realm of rhetorical now yeah maybe
I'm saying is speed more important than
connectivity or is five gigabits per
second at its base fast enough for an
a/c unit okay so I think it comes down
to
and I mean I suppose with any bit of
information you can achieve potential
change again sir but what are you going
to be doing with it that requires such a
higher rate of speed transfer is like
are you gonna be running regular backups
are you running like hourly snapshots of
your sister you know what honestly Jeff
I don't even think that that matters I
think what Pyrus rocks point is is that
it simply makes you more future ready
because 10 gigabit per second is the
current high-end standard so do you want
to hold yourself back at five how fast
do they improve weight every couple
years sash but I mean yeah and and the
truth is the truth of the matter keeping
in mind that the SATA controller itself
is limited to six gigabits per second
okay so us SATA 3 hard drives or like
spinning drives that are plugged into
that NASA unit they're only gonna run at
six gigabits per second so I'm gonna
maximize that in a j-bot environment
with eSATA however if I was to create
say a raid 1+0 so keeping in mind that
the these devices will hold four or five
individual hard drives and I can create
a raid within them if I had a raid one
point zero one plus zero
I would theoretically be able to
maximize that ten gigabits per second
but again what are you using it for I
think really unless you're actually in
real time live decoding and encoding
video like 4k video I don't know that
you would ever need that kind of speed
but really that's my point I mean I the
whole idea of being future ready and
running you know at ten megabits a
second is great but our gigabits gigabit
sorry yeah but are you going to use it
to its capacity or is it going to be an
underwhelming usage and I mean as we're
talking about this I mean what's going
through my head is look I got an X you
four you've got an X you four we're both
looking at the same thing this is the
single board computer that you can buy
for 49 bucks that has USB 3.0 with you
ASP what if we just did both options you
go with the 3.1 I'll take the 3.0 and
we'll set them up the same and
and then we'll deathmatch them monitor
that kind of thing and see whoa well you
could just benchmark them Jeff I mean
realistically you could benchmark them
but it do I need that kind of do I need
ten gigabits a second for my backup I
don't think so
hold on as a tech guy are you saying do
I need yes always I need 20 gigabits per
second what do you mean it only holds
for hard drives I need 40 I want Watson
for mine ass so I guess it comes down to
I mean what do you need your external
device to be capable of and what what
direction would you take and why this is
actually coming up this week and why
this is an important question is because
the technology is shifting in such a way
that the choice no longer comes down to
price there is no choice to say do I go
for the three point one with ten
gigabits per second and pay a little bit
more do I pay the little bit extra to
get that extra speed no now it's no
longer a choice because the price is one
for one the price is exactly the same
that's the shift that we're seeing in in
this industry so with that in mind which
direction do you want to take well a
marsh man just brings up an interesting
point in the chatroom saying you're
never gonna get either of the five
gigabits a second or ten gigabits a
section SEC second my goodness something
about meatballs and that's simply
because of the one gig on your network
if you've got a network that's only okay
fair say however the Odroid xu4 is
connected directly to it so your Odroid
let's just say hypothetical it's plugged
into your TV over HDMI and you're using
it for plex media server it's going to
get the full five gigabits per second
okay right or if you're plugging it USBC
into your computer you're gonna get the
full 10 gigabits per second on the USBC
model right see ya with for our TV
upstairs yes have it running plex off a
PI okay but it's running through the
network and we've never had an issue Wow
so and I mean that's with some of our HD
movies and all that kind of stuff so
yeah even at one gigabit it's been fine
yeah so I true enough true enough
so I mean Marshman does bring up a good
point if it's purely for network travel
within your home is it really gonna make
a difference
yeah and so if that's the case then I
think the easy answer is same price not
gonna make a difference of course you go
with better that way you say you've got
what is better Jeff that's the thing
what defines better repointing this
entire number than 3.0 so just by
default that's better but you're still
going to connect that over USB 3.0 to
your UAF SP on the Odroid xu4 so you're
still gonna be capping out at five
gigabits per second right but you're
gonna be losing the eSATA just wait for
two years and then buy the next one
that's the solution you don't need to
save anything just gonna lead all your
files for point one so I I think right
now we just need to say okay community
we want to hear from you which would you
choose
yeah based on everything that we've
discussed here and then we're gonna
review it we're gonna actually bring it
onto the show and we're gonna show you
how this device operates and see what we
can do with it does that sound fair yes
yep Jeff you're gonna buy the opposite
sure one hundred seventy nine bucks hey
that's not bad at all you gotta buy
drives for two that's just the chassis
oh yeah I gotta buy hard drives come on
you gotta put storage
yeah fair enough yeah
fair enough we do have to take a really
quick break do make sure that you
comment below let us know what you think
or if you're watching live comment on
the discord as well we'll be right back
[Music]
welcome back to category five technology
TV exciting stuff going on today we've
just been talking about USB options from
the Twitter is Rob even from the tweets
tweets and now we're gonna get into some
coding because like I'm a coder at heart
that's what I do day in day out and we
always think of PHP I mean maybe that's
a general statement but do we kind of
think of PHP as always being coupled
with lamp stacks with Apache it's a it's
a web language right like isn't that
what PHP is it's strictly for making
websites exactly oddly enough about an
hour before I came here I was showing
Luke websites that I had made in the
past and showing him the difference
between ones that I had done with PHP
and ones that were not with PHP like
HTML straight HTML straight HTML and he
was nice wow there's a really big
difference I'm like yeah so kid can I do
that a pleco buddy there's so many cool
options you know music could I build a
website with scratch not quite not quite
however what Luke is going to achieve by
using scratch is learning syntax that's
right and syntax is really really
important and what's neat about PHP
versus HTML so hTML is a static coding
language for the web or I shouldn't call
it a coding language because I know I'm
gonna get some hate it's a markup
language it is text right and it allows
you to include images and everything
that's the output that you see in your
browser PHP on the other hand is what's
called a server-side programming
language so when you create something in
PHP if you're clever with it you can do
all kinds of stuff because it's a
program running that then outputs HTML
or XML or JSON or whatever you want it
to output but typically it's going to be
HTML so you've created a program that
runs under PHP the environment
and the language and outputs the markup
of say HTML so it creates the output to
your browser but it is in so many
essences a programming language and did
you know that you can use it like a
programming language like a bash shell
script imagine being able Jeff to to
program something that can connect to a
MySQL database using the same techniques
that you're used to for building your
web sites that can parse arrays and
objects and output text and load things
and explode variables into arrays and be
able to do all kinds of things from the
command-line right so now you've got
something that you can create cron tasks
with that you can connect to a MySQL
database without having to figure out
how to do it because you already know
PHP from all your web work that's right
so why not use that language within the
command line as well on linux you can
crontab it you can do anything else I
have never thought about doing that that
is an interesting approach let's let's
take a look at my command line and we're
just we're not gonna get into advanced
PHP here today folks that's not what
this is about what we're looking at is
thinking of PHP is not just Apache
back-end this is not all it's capable of
we're gonna look at it instead as a
programming language that you can use
within bash within your Linux
environment so I'm just simply going to
I'm gonna just jump right over here and
I'm just gonna I'm in my home folder
home Robbie I'm gonna make sure my app
whatever it happens to be and I'm going
to create a file now that is going to be
called what do we want to call this Jeff
my app dot PHP right let's just say so
this is just a a text file if you will
anyone who's familiar with PHP a little
bit knows that that's kind of how you
open and close a PHP file and if I want
to enter some PHP syntax I can say hello
world
right hello world right I mean it all
starts there so I've written out that
file and what I need to have is a simple
tool called
are you ready for this PHP right well
technically PHP CLI but now I've already
got it installed but you can type apt
install and I need to be super user so
sudo apt install PHP that's all you need
to run and it will install everything
that you need and now if I run PHP my
app dot PHP
I see hello world nifty right so now
that's pretty cool I mean that's cool I
want to add watch this PHP AOL which is
PHP end of line which means that now
when I run it in my terminal it's gonna
add carriage return afterwards nice so
that it's not wrapping into my my
username like that so that's kind of
cool
so of course PHP being a programming
language I can do all kinds of stuff
like I was saying but this is now lets
me run it within the terminal and it's
not really that exciting yet because I'm
still relying on the fact that I need to
go PHP home Robbie my app my app dot PHP
right and it will run ok so I'm going to
show you the next step this is where PHP
becomes what we will call a terminal
based programming language and that is
to specify the environment within the
file you've seen bash files so if I'm
creating a shell script this is I'm
gonna call this my script dot sh and
what do I start it with crunchbang bin
bash that's the environment that I'm
creating
so that bash or whatever environment I'm
running it within knows that this code
is meant to be run within the bash
environment okay
so similarly can I do that with bin PHP
well sure I can because guess what look
in bin look at all of the options that
are in there LS bin is there a PHP no
there's not
so what do we do if we can't do slash
bin slash PHP well watch this Nano my
app dot PHP let's go crunch bang user
bin env for environment PHP okay write
that file out so now there is a file
called user bin env there it is right
let's do an LS lah hope I forgot a space
there there it is user bin env so now
I've added that as my environment to the
top of this PHP file and added PHP so
I'm saying run this environment PHP
right ok now I still can't go dot slash
my app dot PHP it's gonna say permission
denied well I haven't created it as an
executive all yet so I'm gonna go chmod
plus x my app dot PHP so now I no longer
have to go PHP my app dot PHP know I can
go dot slash my app dot PHP and it runs
as an application right ok now watch
this I'm gonna move that my app dot PHP
to hello I'm gonna actually name the
script hello ok so now watch this home
Robbie my app hello that's the script
run it hello world hello world that's
exactly what I've specified for it to do
within PHP and it's running it within
the environment of PHP so now PHP has
become a command line environment for me
to code in I can connect to my MySQL oh
just like I would for my website I can
access XML feeds using simple XML I can
parse them I can output JSON I can
import JSON and convert it to an array I
can do any of the things that I can
normally do with
PHP as a web programming environment now
as a command line environment that's
funny I've never thought about using PHP
in the command line so this is like a
whole new world of options it's very
interesting and as soon as you start
wanting to create things like let's say
you want to create a web hook that
allows you to post by cron job to your
discord server right and we do this I
have cron jobs that check our database
MySQL with PHP a PHP script using the
environment variable that checks our
database for new videos and then post
them to our discord server and when that
works really well it posts those videos
directly to our discord server because
the cron job runs as a script in the
term of basically it's running headless
but on a server and it just runs like
any other bash script huh but in the PHP
language interesting yeah so I mean
think about all the things that you
could do with that there is really no
limit to using your imagination to
create scripts that you can use within
the terminal now what really opened this
be that it's that the PHP is running in
the background or can you flip back and
forth it so that it's running and then
you're doing other things that you have
to leave it solely as the the primary
function within your you know say you
run within a script itself yeah if I
follow exactly what you're asking Jeff
and you can correct me if I'm wrong are
you asking if I was to swap back and
forth between bash and PHP is that kind
of what you're going for well no like
say you're doing this on a Raspberry Pi
yes you know you're running in the
command line if you're running some you
know PHP functionalities you know would
this be the sole function for that
device or can it be something that's
kind of running as a job in the
background I see so this is just a
single script Jeff okay so just like
every shell script just like every
script where
it starts with script
crunchbang bin bash every script that
looks like that and now has some bash
things going on okay right
that's a bash script right so you can
run that then you can run your PHP it
can run as as programs that you run
manually it can run as cron jobs that
happen on a schedule for those who
aren't familiar with the term cron job
that's a Linux term that refers to a
scheduled task so what you're used to in
Windows is like scheduled tasks a cron
job is something that is a scheduled
execution of a program
whether it's bash or PHP or whatever as
long as it's a script that you're
crontab can can see right so no you can
run as many things as you want Jeff this
can be just something that's running on
your web server so you you could combine
this with your lamp stack and have it
automatically put it could connect out
to the Twitter feed download your
current tweets save them to your MySQL
database and then your website can
access the database rather than having
to go out over the web using the API so
then you can reduce you could reduce
your API calls make it check make it
check and save once per hour instead of
once every time someone visits your
website right how great is that
and it because it happens as a cron job
in the background of your server it
never happens during the user's session
they're only seeing it from your
database just one example of how this
could be used right so it's a local
access for them so that is how to use
PHP as a programming language
essentially in your Linux command line
all you have to do is just add the
environment variable and you're good to
go and just make sure that you have PHP
installed as well again you can do that
using apt-get or apt and just install
PHP enjoy that let us know what you come
up with and all the cool ways that
you're able to improve things happening
in the backend of your computer of your
server so any Linux device all right we
do have to head over to the newsroom
Sasha if you're ready we'll head over to
you I sure AM here's what's coming up in
the category 5 TV newsroom right
three PI for having problems with Wi-Fi
when connected to high-definition
displays someone pretended to be mayor
and the government gave him a dot-gov
domain google has confirmed that a flaw
that allowed hackers to take control of
Android phone cameras microphones and
GPS locations without the owner's
permission has been fixed and a
SmartWatch advertised as a way to help
parents keep track of their children and
give them peace of mind can be turned
into a frightening surveillance device
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show this is the
category five dot TV newsroom covering
the week stop texting with a slight
linux' bias eye
sascha Rickman joined this week by Jeff
Weston all right some quick honorable
mentions this week Google wants to bring
Android as close as possible to the
mainline Linux kernel a new breed of ARM
based smartphones including the Librium
5 and the pine phone are targeting
mainline Linux support as a feature and
Google is clearly thinking along the
same lines
switching Android to run on the machine
line Linux kernel would be a huge
undertaking one that would inevitably
require major technical and political
changes to the way that the Linux kernel
is currently developed instead of each
Android device shipping its own device
specific Linux kernel Google's idea is
to upstream as much code as possible in
short as reporter Ron
Amedeo sums up Google wants to decouple
the Linux kernel from its hardware
support and Apple will have to face the
law for for distributing crappy
keyboards I love it Apple has been
trying to stop a class-action lawsuit
over faulty MacBook keyboards federal
judge Edward Davila has tossed out the
attempt the lawsuit accuses Apple of not
only hiding the fragility of MacBook
butterfly' keyboards but also failing to
provide an effective fix or full
compensation for customers who paid for
repairs the lawsuit covers many Apple
laptops with butterfly keyboards
starting with the original 12-inch
MacBook from 2015 and including MacBook
Pro models produced in 2016 and later
let's get into the stock top stories for
following this week raspberry pi 4 are
having problems with Wi-Fi when
connected to High Definition displays
can't connect to your Raspberry Pi 4 to
Wi-Fi try a lower resolution or a
different HDMI cable developer andrey
Kozeny reported quote if the Raspberry
Pi 4 outputs HDMI at a resolution of
2560 by 1440 the Wi-Fi stops working
end quote others have noted that the
loss of 2.4 gigahertz Wi-Fi when using
just 1080p resolution but were able to
solve it by switching to the 5 gigahertz
band there are reports that Wi-Fi
performance is significantly degraded
with monitors connected to HDMI 0
there is less degradation when the
monitor is connected to HDMI one if
you're experiencing this problem the
current recommendation is to use the
HDMI port the lowest resolution possible
do not use Wi-Fi or wait for the next
hardware iteration that will hopefully
fix the issue oh dear I got I got a say
I mean I've never been a fan of
Raspberry Pi Wi-Fi light and simple so
if I was using it as a multimedia PC I'm
gonna go with Ethernet anyways
especially now that they've got gigabit
but to think that now there's this issue
that's cropped up and it's surprising
that it didn't come up before now
because Raspberry Pi 4 has been marketed
as being like the desktop PC of SBC's
and of course the home theater PC of
SBC's as well that's how they've market
it marketed it even though there are
more powerful boards out there but Wi-Fi
is kind of critical when you're doing a
home theater PC it really is and I mean
this isn't an interesting problem to
have where it's based on a specific port
that's video based I mean we're talking
HDMI but suddenly when you're running at
a really high resolution it kicks out
your Wi-Fi and only on a certain band it
feels it feels to me like interference
which is like isn't this FCC compliant
like that's that's how it feels to me it
should be but I mean there's been a
number of issues now with the Raspberry
Pi 4 and it makes me wonder like how did
this stuff get missed in the QC aspect
of it yeah certainly the USBC issue
comes to mind where it's not a compliant
USB C port right that's a big problem so
you have to have specific cables in
order to charge her to power it is this
a newly developing problem like will
they be able to fix it with an upgrade
then or you know I don't know sash I it
seems to me like like I say it sounds
like an interference issue which sounds
like something that they would have to
do hardware
improvements in order to fix that and I
don't know that it's a new issue it's
just that somebody finally made the
connection that the Wi-Fi dropping out
is with regards to to the HDMI output as
you mentioned somebody had noticed that
if you switch to five gigahertz versus
2.4 gigahertz it seemed to have better
connectivity when you're connected to
HDMI so really I mean it's actually a
good news story that if all of them were
having this problem at least there's a
bit of a workaround oh sure right yeah
yeah but then you do lose one out like
you're now missing out on an HDMI port
on your bike yeah you are so yeah and
there's a fine line I mean I think with
single board computers - we there there
are two sides of the user base there's
the side that I am which is I know that
it's a single board computer I feel like
it's groundbreaking and earth-shattering
and the technology has been condensed
from the supercomputer into a
pocket-sized device and I'm so impressed
and if there's problems I'm okay with
that and I'm like I didn't pay a lot for
this and it's like I'm like on the
bleeding edge of what is next and then
there's the other side that's like I
bought this to have two 4k video outputs
and if I connect them I can't work the
Wi-Fi right and that's the flip side of
it and I can understand that side of it
as well especially for the non techie
the non tinkerer right I'm a tinkerer I
want to play around I don't I don't mind
if things don't always work the way
they're supposed to because I love to
tinker and I love I'm gonna be the one
who buys the next-gen because I want to
see how it how it progresses and you and
you know because you know that they
really want excellence that they're just
gonna push and make it better for the
next gen but there's this fine line also
with the development process and the
creation of the product where they're
trying to drive down the price to 25 $35
and if they're gonna do that with to 4k
outputs and better Wi-Fi and USBC like
they're cutting corners folks they like
do you know
they are cutting corners like crazy to
make this thing happen so there's you
know there you gotta you gotta put
things into perspective like that sure
you win a little yeah
someone pretended to be a mayor and the
government gave him a dot-gov domain a
security researcher acquired an official
Gov to prove a suspected weakness in the
system which could have been used to
spread fake emergency alerts or obtain
private information about citizens the
researcher posed as the mayor of a small
town with a population of less than 6500
people all they had to do was set up a
fake Google Voice number and gmail
address both completely unaffiliated
with the town after that they filled out
an official authorization form which
basically asks for the same contact
information of registrar would require
the documents needed to be printed on
the town government's official
letterhead which the researcher obtained
by searching for other official
documents posted by the town online
according to a town clerk from the
actual town the only inquiry the city
received from the GSA came ten days
after the researchers fake registration
was approved and the GSA only called
after the security researcher revealed
what they've done to a cyber security
reporter who then inquired about the
domain in the short time they had the
domain which has since been revoked the
researcher was able to sign up for
Facebook's law enforcement subpoena
request system which provides law
enforcement and government entities with
personal user records initially that gov
domain names were only available to u.s.
federal government institutions they've
since been opened up to state and local
governments at the end of October 2019 a
bill was introduced in Congress to
improve oversight over government
domains by the cyber security and
infrastructure security agency Wow
so they yeah Wow yeah yeah they did that
like I mean cuz you would think if
there's somebody filling out an
application for this book
the approval goes in you start asking
questions but maybe we are we just a
society that relies so much on the
information on the internet that we
believe what comes in and on the
application for that is true yes and now
to be honest these dot of domain names
now that this story has come out would
you that not trust like you should not
trust them you know that people can I
don't know if you could say you can't
trust them because I mean if I gotta go
to a doctor website and I mean granted
they're mostly for like we said us and a
lot of that isn't gonna apply
necessarily for use here in Canada well
we we're here in Canada but remember
that most of our viewers are United
States even though we have your servers
world yeah perspective sure you know we
have to be able to dress that this is
trustworthy but I would think like
you're gonna know what you're looking
for I mean it's not like you're gonna
randomly search up like hey this is no
no dude we're taught to trust that the
lock means that it's secure
yes the.gov means that it's an official
government website right so so in this
instance so could they not take the
actual town website and create a
phishing site that now collects your
information and gets you to fill in
forms that gives the hacker this was a
security researcher but what if it was a
hacker right thing is that this this is
a guy just trying to expose the suspect
ruling it can be done and he did prove
it and I mean that's good that it it
ended well but it could have ended badly
and so people need to maybe dial it back
like they opened up the dot-gov to maybe
more I guess more complacency by
allowing local government sure the scary
thing about this and I mean maybe it
wasn't random but the fact that one of
the first things that this guy did was
then get access to the Facebook
information why not continue proving the
point well exactly but I mean this this
is then gonna be one of those stories
where people are gonna go Oh Facebook
that's you know it's like no no let's
focus on the
issue here like you you trusted
something that became untrustable yes
untrustworthy whatever this reporters
self-reported right like they talk to a
security expert right it wasn't like he
went hey this is what I've done like he
spoke to somebody who then inquired
that's the only reason they found out it
didn't inquire how long could this have
gone on I would have liked to know I'm
hot like I'm happy not to know really it
would be scary but how far could they
have gone could to the moon there's no
end satchel there's no end
yeah it's it opens up the question how
many other fake Gove's are there out
there yeah so be leery I suppose yeah
where we always have to be careful
always have to be careful folks we've
got to take a quick break the crypto
report and more of this week's top tech
stories are coming up don't go anywhere
[Applause]
welcome to the cryptic on my name is
Bart Koenig and I'm reporting to you
from Florida USA I've got into NASA
background and as you probably can hear
it's a European one I've been involved
in this industry since 12 2015 and
occupied many roles starting with coding
running team supporting I SEOs and like
most of us also losing money through
trading tokens the crypto corner will be
split in two parts the first one will be
news so what happened during the last
seven days and the second part will be
about special subject this time we'll be
talking about the private key so let's
dive into it the market cap of the
industry has not changed really changed
in the last seven days there were some
ups and downs but it's hovering around
two hundred billion US dollars the
Bitcoin market share is around 66
percent so those things haven't really
changed what has changed is some
interesting news coming from several
countries first one is India India for
the first time is committing to do some
research on blockchain technologies to
establish a national framework for
blockchain technologies which is great
news because in the past there have been
very negative towards the crypto
industry Germany is starting with a new
proposal law that would legalize banks
being able to hold cryptocurrencies in
the past I had to go through third
parties also the holding through third
parties now they will be hopefully soon
allowed to hold them themselves South
Korea South Korea has been always very
positive towards the crypto industry but
they are now working on a bill that will
provide a legal foundation for
cryptocurrencies so that's going to be
interesting because I said the leading
edge and they they have been always very
positive in this
industry other news is up it the
exchange went through was hacked last
week and they installed three and 40 mm
ether those are known where they are so
the wallets are known although what they
don't know who the people are behind
them but remains to be seen what will
happen with those either the big
exchanges they all set they're not going
to trade those either into any other
cryptocurrency or interfered BitFenix
becomes the first major exchange to
enable Bitcoin lightning support which
is interesting because as you know
Bitcoin lightning is the second layer
application on the Bitcoin platform
which is equivalent to or they want to
have it equivalent to a visa payment
platform in regards to speed and also
fees and then balance is rolling out the
theorem futures so previously you could
do trade only Bitcoin futures and now
you'll have also the possibility to
trade in if your futures subject of the
week is the private key the private key
is an essential part of a cryptocurrency
and it ultimately defines who the owner
of a coin or token is let me give you an
example if you purchase some tokens
through an exchange and you leave them
on the exchange when those tokens are
not yours they belong to the crew to the
exchange only once you transfer those
tokens over to your wallet like let's
say for example exodus or treasure or
ledger and then those tokens will be
yours
and that's defined through the private
key so I always make sure that you are
in possession of the private key and the
easiest way to do that is through a
wallet like Exodus as mentioned Exodus
treasure or ledger and that's it from me
so see you next week and thank you for
watching thank you Robert
and for those of you watching we do not
provide financial advice about
cryptocurrency this is more so just an
FYI for you so you know what's happening
in the crypto markets google has
confirmed that a flaw that allowed
hackers to take control of Android phone
cameras microphones and GPS location
without the owner's permission has been
fixed the flaw was identified by
security firm checkmarks which found
quote multiple concerning
vulnerabilities and quote in the Google
camera app that enabled them to spy on
its users the issue which also affected
Samsung meant that hundreds and millions
of smartphone users were at risk
according to the firm its team found
that by quote manipulating specific
actions and intents an attacker can
control the app to take photos or record
videos through a rogue application that
has no permission to do so and quote
check marks also found that certain
scenarios enabled hackers to access
stored videos and photos or to see GPS
metadata embedded in photos that would
locate a user the firm was able to
access these vulnerabilities using a
mock-up weather app that only required
basic storage permissions from an
Android user according to the firm
storage permissions are very broad and
give access to the entire SD card after
identifying the flaw the firm notified
Google which after researching the
report found that the vulnerabilities
were quote not specific to the pixel
product line and that the impact was
much greater and extended into the
broader Android ecosystem and quote the
tech giant has since fixed the
vulnerabilities and thanked the security
firm for identifying the issue Samsung
has also released patches to fix the
issue since it was discovered that's a
scary story yes
I mean I am always won whenever I
download an app I look at all the
permissions and there are times where if
I'm looking at two different comparable
apps yes you know in the Android store
will tell me what permissions doesn't
require and I will go with the one that
has
less access to my phone but I have
noticed with the access to file storage
that it is everything and that's been
one of my chief complaints and I would
love to see on a future update that
access to storage permissions is broken
down to save only access only specific
areas like I would like to see more
definition with that so these kind of
things hopefully don't happen as often
right so yeah the part that's scary is
the fact that it would look like you're
not giving that much permission it's
just for one thing right but the one
thing is everything yeah exactly and
then that's you know with all the apps
that people are producing and I mean we
just went through this with my kids
because I found
they've been downloading apps that I
have no clue about on their phones right
why why and what actually alerted us to
it is my daughter asked me I mean she's
eight yeah she asked me to you know to
do something on her phone with our dog
and I pop like I go to load the screen
like full-blown on adult pictures from
spyware no way I'm using this on her
phone I'm going come on what have you
downloaded and and she's like oh I
thought like I didn't know and I'm like
this is my daughter yes because of these
apps that she's download that I we'd no
clue so I mean we've fixed everything
but I'm thinking come on like we have to
be more aware of what we download and
there's so much stuff within the app
stores that just want access to your
faul enhancing yeah I have found that
week after week reading stories like
this I download a whole lot less I don't
like my device I yeah I know the ones I
like and I trust I don't need to be
entertained by my phone so I don't
download entertaining apps for those of
you who are watching this on your phone
ignore everything that she's saying
but it's scary right because you see you
know different apps are popping up in
the news and they're doing and they
could seem so benign but they're doing
such harder yeah so I guess the best
thing to do is really just stay on top
of yeah well I mean I at least do what
you're doing
read through what permissions right at
least do that and then also hope like
for example this has been patched since
it was the vulnerability was released
right so you just had kind of have to
hope for the good at all okay a Smart
Watch advertised as a way to help
researchers at the av-test Institute
have uncovered gaping privacy and
security holes in the SMA - watch touch
dot - M - Smart Watch the security
lapses are so severe that the
researchers were able to piece together
a snapshot of the life and daily habits
of a randomly selected ten year old girl
from Germany among other data the
Chinese made device exposed the girl's
name age place of residence where she
spent most of her day and the route she
takes the researchers could even access
the sound messages that were transmitted
to her device and that's still not all
they were even able to monitor her
real-time GPS position obviously the
security shortcomings didn't affect just
that single device the team said it
could gain access to the location phone
number photos and conversations of well
over 5,000 children and was quick to
note the number of affected users might
in fact be far higher the researchers
found that in addition to communication
with the manufacturers server being
unencrypted the online interface of the
manufacturers server was completely
unsecured leaving it entirely open to
external on author ID access
unauthorized access although an
authorization token was generated to
prevent unauthorized access the server
does not validate it which essentially
means anyone with enough
cooking skills should have no problem in
accessing user IDs this allows potential
attackers to have the same access that a
parent would have this lapse in security
was found to affect users in Germany
Turkey Poland Mexico Belgium Hong Kong
Spain Netherlands and China Jeff you
don't look pleased yeah I think as a
parent I mean isn't it tough to think
that hey this device that I bought from
and I didn't but rhetorical did I buy
for my child so that I can kind of keep
track of where they are and if they get
lost in a mall I can find them and to
realize that there has been little to no
security consideration it feels like a
violation by the company who
manufactures this and that you are
collecting and allowing this data to be
accessible but putting no effort into
the actual security and protection and
and as a software developer myself that
is my first consideration yeah I've had
payment processing websites that come to
me and they say well why is it so
expensive and I say because my first
consideration is the security of the
data of your customers and that has to
be the way it is yes you know there's so
many comments I could make with this and
it as a parent this this makes me feel
ill well yeah I mean I would love to
have you know fun tech stuff for my kids
and I mean oddly enough for Cyber Monday
and Black Friday we were looking at
getting smartwatches for our kids ones
that provided these kind of capabilities
but I couldn't pull the trigger because
I didn't recognize the brands they
weren't reputable sources they were good
deals yeah they weren't reputable names
and I'm going hi can you trust this
right and I mean I hear stories like
this and I'm like you know what it's
time to go off the grid it's a really
good idea it's a really good concept
I mean in my line of work it would be
really good for people with dementia or
you know or children it's really good to
monitor the safety of people who are
vulnerable however these people are
vulnerable and it's really bad to
exploit that I mean either with
malicious intent or or just complacency
right I don't like when an idea is good
like this it needs to be followed up
with the security that you know Robbie
provides thank you now this brings up a
like a notification alert question
within my head like I'm listening to
this I'm going and I'm thinking okay
Robbie is a security guy maybe you can
weigh in on this if you have a company
that quite frankly doesn't care they've
been exposed for this issue and they
don't care for them it's about pumping
out a device that is going to generate
money for them and if it fails whatever
they'll just open it up under a new name
and do it again as a parent who goes
this is a great option but they may not
be watching for these kind of alerts
yeah how as a parent do you catch the
vulnerabilities with a device like this
if the company decides they're not going
to alert you like yeah do it does the
industry have an alert system where all
this stuff gets pushed out that a parent
can go I may not understand it but I
know that this alert says that product
all right I understand what you're
saying like you know like when there's a
tainted produce at the grocery store and
there's a huge recall I heard a recall
today and it's like the the product that
was recalled expired yesterday so anyone
who bought it has already eaten it or
thrown it away anyways right but what
good is that standpoint for tech stuff
what parents can sign up for general
alerts for this kind of stuff you know I
don't know of one but I'm sure there is
and and just backing up real quick I
don't want to take the assumption that
the people who manufacture the device
don't care no I did I just I know it's a
hypothetical but I just want to put that
out there that
sometimes devices are put out and and a
lot of times with these Chinese
manufactured products it's like it's a
manufactured thing that gets picked up
by a third party and that third party
thinks hey this is a great idea let's
bring it to market and it all happens
quickly and it all happens without
really the security guy evaluating it
guy gal evaluating the the security
implications and certainly this is a big
one especially as we look at things like
Coppa and the protection of children and
the monitoring of children and now being
able to be exploit it's so easily I I
don't know what to say I mean it's it's
just it's bad practice all around but
we're feeding into it with the
purchasing decisions that we make and I
think you made a good decision Jeff to
say I'm just not going to buy that but
then what do you do if you want those
kind of functionalities and maybe it's
okay well sticking with brands that you
recognize and sticking with brands that
have child-safe policies perhaps there
must be some I know like ESET has
parental controls that you can install
on their phone if your kids have a
mobile device that's a smart compatible
has internet connectivity you can trace
it using geolocation and it's obviously
I mean they're a security company it's
very well encrypted and and you are the
only person who has access to that data
so you know is that what we have to do
it's not a cheap solution no it's not
and quite frankly it comes back to a lot
of times you pay for what yeah there you
go yeah and I mean if you're you know
for us we didn't pull the pin on these
smart watches for the kids yeah because
hey was a great price but I just I can't
trust the name if I'm gonna get a smart
watch for my kids I'm gonna pay the two
$300 for something from you know Samsung
or an Apple because I know that they're
gonna stand behind their security if
something goes awry mmm-hmm
it's it's a tricky time of year too
because everybody really does want to
get the newest and greatest in yeah so
maybe this is a bit of a maybe this is
it maybe this is the PSA to the parents
out there who have purchased these cheap
devices from China that and just using
this as the example it's like be mindful
okay this has happened this is happening
you need to be you need to be protecting
your kids crazy
big thanks to Roy W national community
of viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and if you
appreciate what we do become a patron at
patreon.com slash newsroom from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Ahmed and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Geoff West folks we've got to take a
really quick break stick around
welcome back this is category five
technology TV Sasha have some internet
stuff I do okay so I live in a house now
David it's two apartments down by the
river yeah I have an upstairs neighbor
and and we live downstairs I want to
share the same Internet okay now we do
without any problems usually yeah except
that I have Google home and she has
Google home and I have Spotify Premium
which and she does by default if she's
sharing your IP address because you
changed your password it doesn't matter
it's like on the same it's on the Wi-Fi
all right so everything changes so the
reason why I was alerted to this I
didn't even know it was a problem Dave
listens to Spotify far more than I do
lissa Sasha's husband yes but I when I
was driving home the other day I got an
alert in my car saying that
Spotify was playing Rudolph the
red-nosed reindeer and I thought well
that's not Dave not linked up to your
phone or your device like because I know
we have a lot of stuff as ip-based my
friend and a lot of tracking his IP base
so you're gonna start seeing advertising
that belongs to the neighbor upstairs or
you're gonna see like things that are
related to their shopping habits over
the holidays so what I need is a
solution it's not it's not that I'm
unhappy cher yes but I would like my
stuff to be mine yeah I can broadcast
actually we're after we realized the
trouble of it I was broadcasting to her
daughter back in the chat using your
Google cast devices yeah you know what
really scares me about the scenario and
I love I mean hey let's share right
you've got more than enough bandwidth
sure okay so in a rental unit like that
yeah sometimes we share our internet
connectivity but what is scary about
this sasha is you've got computers right
yes your neighbor
also has computers what happens if they
run around somewhere script on their
computer what if they open that
ransomware email you're connected to the
same stinking network you are on the
same network my friend this is exactly
why I'm having this conversation right
now because until that point I didn't
really think about it and I I need I
need a thing like modifies one thing
right but also all your private files
there on the same network okay think
about that for a second okay bye another
Wi-Fi sharing the internet so you're
saving money yeah so why not buy another
Wi-Fi enabled router then pick up like a
$15 switch and then run your feed from
your actual modem into the switch split
off to the two routers that way you both
have your individual home networks no
why wouldn't that work because what
you're doing is you're creating 2 SS IDs
you're creating 2 W lands Wireless lands
okay but those W lands are both
connecting to the same local area
network the same land so the
connectivity it's like in a in an office
building where you've got a warehouse in
the back and the Wi-Fi doesn't quite
reach there you run a cable and you plug
in another access point then it gives
you access to what the same network
right so in this case what what the
correct course of action I think Sasha
would be and in your you're almost there
Jeff it's not a double you'll and that
you need it's a VLAN that you need
okay so wireless LAN that's one thing
but a VLAN is a virtual local area
network it allows you to create a
virtual LAN within the current network
or essentially separate from it so
without the authentication to access
that VLAN the neighbor would not be able
to access any devices that are connected
to your VLAN those could be hardwired
those could be wireless it could be
whatever now it is Sasha it's gonna
require a device I would probably look
at you can start with like a $50
mikrotik router
in a small you've got a small apartment
so that probably will work just fine you
can get a really decent mikrotik for
about a hundred fifty bucks and then
that will give you like the the really
strong Wi-Fi signal but I think you can
get away with just like a cheap mikrotik
and set up a VLAN it's a little bit
complex to set up but a VLAN will be a
separate network from the existing one
but sharing the internet connection
let's see that's exactly what I want
right will the VLAN stop the ability of
you know network attacks you know from
ransomware and stuff like that from from
their land to the VLAN yes because
there's no cross talking between them
other than the internet so if the
neighbor was to open an email that had
ransomware
right now your scenario Sasha the scary
thing is you have a Windows 10 machine I
do
it has Samba file-sharing so that you
can access your files from other devices
and so can your neighbor yes they can
also access your printer they can also
access your connected devices and and
everything else if they click on a
ransomware file an executive all by
accident because it comes in looking
like an invoice at Christmastime or a
shipment notification from UPS and if
they double click on that and run it it
goes out on the network and finds all
the devices that are susceptible which
means Samba on a Windows machine for
example and destroys all the files so
that's your personal data so yeah
putting the heal and separate from that
will separate the two lands so a VLAN
would be enough what's a virtual private
network could I do that too like should
I do that too that's a different thing
just be ok yeah the V throws yeah the
VPN the virtual private network is so
that you can connect out to another
network that composed in like a business
environment so that somebody can connect
from home to their work in a secure
method some people use that to be able
to access other regions of the world for
example Netflix Canada doesn't have
certain shows that they want so they
connect to a VPN in America so that they
can use Netflix America all right so I
need a VLAN you need a VLAN to separate
your local area network into a virtual
local area network so that it's separate
and segregated from the actual physical
local area network thank you all right
does that bring us to the end it does it
does that answer your question I hope so
mikrotik are fantastic because they make
routers that are really really
affordable and I say that like they are
the price of a standard router but the
features of like the Cisco's like you've
got access to things like VLAN creation
and and advanced routing and things that
you would normally pay thousands of
dollars for you've gotten a 100 dollar
router can you find me one maybe put it
on sir cap five dot TV slash mikrotik if
we have 30 seconds there's one question
in the newsroom similar related to this
in the chat in the chat room yeah you
said the nose ramya they're so soul who
is wondering would like a guest net
having that separate guest net would
that be sufficient in this case a guest
network is different it is different
yeah that's all the issue no okay
no because that really is really - that
would protect the neighbor but not you
right okay because a guest guest network
access on your router is it just
understand that what that's built for is
so that if I have a friend over they can
still use my internet but not access my
files right so remember that keeps them
from being able to damage my stuff but
they can get damaged okay so yeah it
would protect the neighbor but it
wouldn't protect Sascha right so that's
that's the distinction between them it's
a little bit different than a VLAN right
okay I mean I'm I don't want her to
think I'm rude or anything no back my
Spotify
it's just this it's the symptom of a
bigger problem it once that happened I
realized oh now yeah got some stuff
going on yeah yeah and and you do have
things like you can only have so many
devices on your Netflix account well if
they're on the same IP address there I
don't know No
I guess that doesn't really count
because they've got to authenticate as
you but but there are there are
different services that use your IP and
I think about advertising at this time
of year too like when my pastor was
getting ads from the shared network
upstairs for tattoos and stuff it's just
like just wasn't quite what she was
looking for but those are the ads that
she was getting service yeah hey that's
all the time that we do have for this
week though don't forget we're on
twitter at category 5 TV
I personally am on twitter at robbie
ferguson i follow back personally so
please follow me I am very highly
entertaining as well you never know what
I'm gonna come up with this week it's
all about memes I discovered how to
create my own memes so it's fantastic
yeah but hey I hope you had fun with us
this week I sure have and it's been
great having you here and we'll see you
again next week and hey
