welcome to the coffee break everybody
nice to see you hey Robbie Mona good
morning everybody
how are you guys today oh well I'm good
run before we get into it I've been
meaning to ask you how do you have those
speakers mounted or those wall-mounted
okay yes yeah yep I might have mentioned
it before when the our our house burned
down like fact actually almost six years
ago now yep and so we built this new
house so I had access to all the wall
you know all the studs and everything
and I know I has those you know spike
wired the house before the drywall right
so I wired Ethernet I wired speakers in
a few of the rooms and so I kinda
already knew what I wanted and I love
the setup so that's really cool here
with the drywall off that's the best
time to to install cabling and Ethernet
cable and all the rest of it right yeah
yeah I mean that was the amazing
opportunity for me to you know to do
what I wanted that's cool you think that
I was here merchandising today why what
did I miss I got the shirt okay
commercial endorsement saying there you
go there you go give them a call say hey
you know I'll wear your merchandise bp9
got me got my head spinning when he saw
when you were asking me bp9 about the
fact that we all read
360 cameras yes and one of my one of my
Kickstarter dreams was to be able to
shoot the video of Jeff getting shot
with the pink balls with the 360 but we
didn't we didn't quite get there so but
then you made me think hey maybe maybe
maybe because we've upgraded the
computer it might not be as dreadful as
a scenario as it was the first time
around everything guys remember episode
471 I shot it in 360 video and it took
two weeks to produce it
I remember you talking about it it
looked pretty good and it worked because
I used my I don't have a snazzy bi hits
it I have a smartphone that fits in a
young I've forgotten the name of it but
except for the resolution on the screen
which was pretty crappy and that's not
your fault
that's the problem that's the phones
problem yeah I've got a lot I've got the
larger pocket phone now so I'm hoping
it'll work a little bit but yeah it
looked fine I was able to paint until
moving all wet and it whipped so that
that was my first foray at 360 VR video
but it was using kind of a makeshift
setup that I had created with hardware
that I got at the hardware store and two
fisheye lenses so I had them put it
back-to-back in shooting video on both
sides then I had to stitch it together
in blender and then export it and then
create the metadata and then import it
to things like YouTube and everything
else so so it was a lot of work and then
editing it like like piecing it together
and making sure the lips were fairly
well synced it was a brutal nightmare on
that old system but I'm thinking might
be worth trying on the new i9 because I
think there's enough power there to be
able to really pull it off so I'm
curious because if we could do it with
existing hardware and and do it with
kind of makeshift hardware mm-hmm that
would be something else do you know what
else I work with what you've got
yeah if I can make it work for sure but
you know what you know what else is
really neat about it is that any of the
consumer 360 cameras that are out there
are boasting what resolution in orange I
think from 1080p to 4k
I think 4k as high as they go I think I
saw one that was 8k but it's the reviews
so far that it's terrible like it's it's
really really bad so my question is
you're having the same problem or you're
gonna have the same problem with 360 as
you are with your current cameras you
shoot at 4k so that you can zoom in and
still get a 1k picture when you're
zoomed in yeah I have a similar problem
with the 360 Cameron's well here's
what's different about ours is if you
consider a a consumer 360 camera you if
they say it's 4k that means the whole
equirectangular video is 4k right so
basically if you were to zoom out and
see everything in the whole 360 sphere
that's 4k but now what you do is when
you put that in your headset you're not
looking at everything you're only
looking at a little 7 drawing key window
of that right so when you look up you're
still only seeing 720p or something like
that
all right with my homemade apparatus
because each of the two sides so I'm
actually pulling 2 times 4k so 4k per
side I get a K visual data so you know
is that full kite across or 4k this way
neither its fisheye it's it's a square
video so it's an exact square with a
circle in it so you have a sphere it's
spherical video so I have two of those
so one on each side and then I stitch
them together and turn them into
equirectangular
so it should end up being up for lunch
I'm sorry what I can do though is show
you something it's something interesting
let me see if I can do this without
showing off how messy my house is now
incredibly messy my house is I don't
know if you can see it there we go yeah
this is this is if I can do this
one-handed
oh I'm sorry that's that's what's inside
it because that is my floppy disk
emulator it uses a little SD card
it's got like hundreds of of 390 K
images on there and if I care enough is
it re-approach bust
all the device I bought this I bought
this unit brand-new and up there it is
the screens come to life I don't know if
you can see it but keep yes sir
it is at a pro 2x not easily seen but I
just pick an image I got a no way 2018 I
guess just having the old system read
that they're newer thing is good
engineering oh it took it took a bit of
jiggery-pokery to make this work so ya
can imagine yeah I'm trying to find some
too but there it is turbo Pascal
this will make nice this will make there
it is it booted so now I think if I
remember correctly oh I can't spell
this will make Peter happy here I mean
so
pesco yep just like it's 1981 absolutely
absolutely
way back when yeah those were the days
those were the days I don't even have I
don't even know what I have in the
waiver workflow let me quit out of it no
ever under a directory so how to
jerry-rig an SD card system it was
ladies ladies it wasn't jerry-rigged I'm
not gonna well maybe I can
is this a hardware camera inside there
yeah yeah you you buy it from Poland of
all places yeah and what it will do is
if I switch to thee what I can do is I
can let me try this now
hold the button down says change drive
can you see that or no yeah yeah so I
can select change drive pick drive B and
then find me another file yes sir yep he
showed us yep Wow a total directory told
directory based so I can now sort now we
can finally install our raid drivers on
Windows this isn't Windows Microsoft
because they up until recently they
still offered floppy disk D RVs yeah so
your rate controller yeah I have no idea
what what's on these programs so let's
have a look and see what's there let's
see no I don't see any that looks like
ow okay I'll pick another yeah that'll
work
we have your selecting your second like
your P Drive now right I'm on the bum on
the B drive now and I switched the image
so it's I had an image for
um for a program called speak but I
don't have the S P 256 chip that I need
to drive which is the speech the speech
chip what I used to have it I don't know
where it is when all this junk around
the house I just can't remember where it
is but I would connect the parallel port
to the SP 256 and then connect the
speaker to it and I could make the
laptop I could make the laptop I can
make the Cape Road actually talk I could
send it that the s P 256 has phonemes
inside it and you connect the phonemes
together to form words when you do speak
that's one way to do speech synthesis
right the phonemes are hard-coded inside
the s P 256 chip you just select which
ones you want and select where you want
the best basis to be and that's how you
form words and away you go
so not in this version no no no because
if it the phonemes are hard-coded in and
they'll only speak with the tone and the
and B cadence and stuff that has been
hard-coded into the into the chip right
made 8 megahertz megahertz I bought this
I bought this brand new in 1983 or 1984
in Australia and Peter I heard you on so
I'm guessing you can see this I thought
I thought I'd make you happy today like
a Dalek anyway speak from those things
but I'm afraid the Box up one is the
early
what is it Bob Ellen Linux well I'm
afraid good it good as to why I wrote an
application for Bob life the Turkish is
going did it remembers it takes a copy
of the document any speech the document
outdoor yeah that's a different approach
to to what this does because in order to
make this work what you the split
program that I had the this I mean I'm
showing two by Pascal here I think you
can recognize that Peter am i right in
any case the program that I was
describing let me see if I can show is
assembler muted so inherently that
wasn't me no I didn't do it
[Laughter]
this reminds me I will see him in the
Terminator 3 movie at the end one of the
things that I liked about the Terminator
3 movie was that there did end and they
managed to get to a shelter it turned
out to be a shelter and there were plans
were that in case something happened
there someone was going to take
authority and and and the equipment was
modern equipment from the nineteen
seventies with no internet access or no
ability to catch any kind of viruses
this show beeping on reminds me oh
that's him you do like the apocalyptic
movies don't you sober and I also like
that from time to time I like to see
movie ever the good guys actually
induces because it's more realistic boy
am I not surprised
so I think you can see on the screen I
don't know if you can see it or not but
that's a that's absurd ad assembly
language that that I'm showing you being
and it's Z ideas primarily is the main
assembly I could our little girl burger
yeah
yep but yeah that's the speak program
that reads text and once it reads the
text it's it stitches phonemes together
like you were talking about stitching 3d
or 360 degree photos together and then
squirts them out to the SP 256 which the
s P 256 will then just speak the
phonemes that you that you squirt at it
so yep I'll have to find that SP 256 or
I'll have to go bye-bye another one if
they're even still available so you're
maybe a word star um command control K Q
to quit yep deja and we're back to the
CPM command prompt an ace then you up so
yep there's my D curry for the day I
love it I'm glad I'm glad those for the
days of the early text-to-speech - yeah
date so I grew up with dr. spades oh you
guys remember that one no no no I don't
remember no no dr. Schlick taught I know
what that's about
it was the the early sound blaster cards
they were the first ones that had the
ability what did it stand for him and do
quick google search
dr. Spade so do creative latter name run
deeper no markers I remember it was an
acronym but I don't remember what it
stood for and it doesn't look like the
the Wikipedia article knows I think I
used Sam on the Commodore 64 software
software automated mouth
oh here it was acronym for Sound Blaster
not crisis
please beings called the program were
content you should be using that Peter
about that yeah I told it fella but
Dudley wanted a late but it's quite good
yeah it all worked up windows see I'm
talking like doctors fate so was like
the first one so it sounds very it stood
for sound blaster artificial
text-to-speech operator that's what it
stood for but it doesn't sound anywhere
as good as what you just played that was
a funny early version about the Daleks
Peter just once say exterminate that's
just great Texas Baker is about fun
eating of Everett I couldn't wait since
they like that Jacob realize your job
this time Peter's a voice actor the BBC
no less to prove the docs collected to
get the day they know that
and pull the tape back Fidel borders
Boeing yeah well remember they you go
down okay Doug you've been pretty quiet
down there on our Brady Bunch grid
pretty good how are you very well very
well just listening bp9 with his
description of the speech synthesis that
was pretty cool so I've got to find me
that to SP 256 chip I want to get it
going again
well we all want to hear it yeah yeah it
doesn't sound like a Dalek so I'm happy
that happy to report that it actually
but each of the phone age have an
American accent so trying to make it
sound like an Australian is really
difficult it's hard to do so they've got
longer
they got likely to do they mark I'll be
glib with spaghetti language Indian
Irish English and Australian you just
remember that this was done back in the
late 80s early 90s we didn't have the
sort of the sort of power that we do now
in laptops and desktops that that k-pro
that I showed up where that I showed off
was the state of the art back then that
pc/xt is right sorry go ahead I'll say
yeah eight megahertz that was very fast
for that day for that time for that
machine yeah absolutely
my first computer 286 ten megabytes but
it had it had a switch on the back where
I could choose to have ten or five oh
yes speaking of it also had the switch
that I could choose between having
colors and the black and white screen
speaking of how far a I voice has come
along do any of you use Amazon echo okay
though that's that's that sounds like
there's some backstory there but this
morning it was really really interesting
Doug I don't know if you
ever done this but my alarm clock broke
and we're having trouble getting a new
alarm clock because the retail stores
are closed and Amazon is like shipping a
month from now so yeah so I took my
Amazon echo and put it in the bedroom
and told it to wake me up at 6:00
violence or not run river I wanted it to
use it as an alarm clock so wake me up
this morning the alarm went off and and
I whispered to it I said I said yeah I
said the key word and I said oh and she
responded in a whispered tone oh wow yes
she whispered back to me oh my I've
never ever heard such a thing from an AI
voice and it was just like just a moment
of like holy cow look at how far this
technology has come y Moi be recognized
I'm saying she that the device
recognized that I was whispering and to
it responded back in an a I whispered
tone it's just amazing very with the iOS
boy it's good gonna cook a dinner and
answer a question and she gets more more
annoyed and if I've ever seen your life
I was blind and JT has a log over there
with the Amazon echo I don't have any
kind of voice activated I don't trust it
for two reasons one in this a closed
source I don't know if there is yet and
everyone depends on my internet
connection in order to just stay there
so with a product like calming it
throughout the house with a product like
my craft be of interest to you so this
is an open-source implementation of AI
assistance as long as it doesn't
as long as I can turn off the ability to
have for an intellect ratio in order to
record attack on a local server that
itself the next time bow from Ameritrade
is here let's talk to him about my craft
and how that can be used to provide that
kind of home assistant without the need
for cloud services that would be pretty
mean but that's all the time that we
have for today
well we won't coming right
I'm not party would have days and all
through the people but they know they
know they don't you don't bloody trip it
here you keep us posted and all the best
to you and your wife and a baby with you
know yep it's all a bit yeah Galia do
not ok bye alright take care take care
everybody have a great afternoon
yeah your Sunday funny you later
