here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom Google has fixed some
Android flaws that allow code execution
with high system rates publishers are
suing and trying to shut down the
Internet Archive Elon Musk makes getting
humans to Mars his top priority will
tell you how he wants to do it Google
Maps has launched new features to help
travelers specifically during the corona
virus pandemic lenovo plans to sell
ubuntu on more ThinkPads and think
stations this summer and the US military
could lose the space force trademark to
Netflix the Netflix series of the same
name stick around the full details and
this week's trip to corner are coming up
this is the category five dot TV news
we're covering the week's top
with a slight linux bias
from the newsroom I'm Becky Ferguson
Google has pushed out security patches
for dozens of vulnerabilities in its
Android mobile operating system two of
which could allow hackers to remotely
execute malicious code with extremely
high system rights in some cases the
malware could run with highly elevated
privileges a possibility that raises the
severity of the bugs that's because the
bugs located in the Android system
component could enable a specially
crafted transmission to execute
arbitrary code within the context of a
privileged process in all Google release
patches for at least 34 security flaws
although some of the vulnerabilities
were present only in devices available
from manufacturer Qualcomm to
vulnerabilities ranked as critical in
Google's June security bulletins are
among four system flaws located in the
Android system the other two are ranked
with a severity of high the critical
vulnerabilities reside in Android
versions 8 through the most recent
release of 11 an advisory from the
multi-state information sharing and
analysis Center said these
vulnerabilities vulnerabilities could be
exploited through multiple methods such
as email web browsing and MMS when
processing media files depending on the
privileges associated with the
application an attacker could then
install programs view change or delete
data or create new accounts with full
user rights vulnerabilities with a
severity rating of high affected the
Android media framework the android
framework and the Android kernel other
vulnerabilities were contained in
components shipped in devices from
Qualcomm the to Qualcomm specific
critical flaws residing close source
components the severity of other
Qualcomm flaws were rated as high anyone
with an Android powered device should
check in settings to see if fixes or
updates are available several of the
world's largest publishers have sued the
Internet Archive for its emergency
library of 1.3 million books claiming
the organization
engaging in willful digital piracy on an
industrial scale
last week the hachette book group
HarperCollins Publishers John Wiley and
Sons and penguin Random House sued the
nonprofit better known for its Wayback
Machine archive of web pages for
copyright infringement infringement they
argued is intentional and systematic we
understand that publishers hope to shut
down the org the Internet Archive
invited the ire of publishers and
authors back in March when it decided to
lift restrictions on the digital copies
of library books it has acquired and
scanned anyone that registers with the
site can take out any of 1.3 million
books the complaint states although the
Internet Archive claims the real figure
is 1.4 million the Internet Archive is
registered as a library but has asserted
an untested theory called control
digital lending that argues libraries
are not infringing on copyright when
they make digital copies of books they
possess publishers and authors have been
unhappy about this approach but held
fire while the Internet Archive
restricted the number of e-books it
would make available at any given time
to the number of physical books it
possessed that restriction went out of
the window in March however when the
Internet Archive decided that due to the
coronavirus it would make all its ebooks
available without a waiting list the
author's guild said the organization has
no rights whatsoever to these books much
less to give them away indiscriminately
without consent of the publisher or
author and the Association of American
publisher is called the move the height
of hypocrisy and a cynical play to
undermine copyright the lawsuit filed in
New York calls the electronic copies of
the books of the Internet Archive that
the integral Internet Archive has made
Digital bootlegs it goes on the Internet
Archive not only acts entirely outside
any legal framework it does so
flagrantly and fraudulently and it
proceeds despite actual notice that its
actions constitute infringement in
response the internet archive's founder
Brewster Kahle has posted a brief blog
poll
in which he notes that the organization
is disappointed by the lawsuit and
claims to be supporting publishers
authors and readers
he says publishers suing libraries for
lending books in this case protected
digitized versions and while schools and
libraries are closed is not in anyone's
interest having completed its first
human launch SpaceX founder and CEO Elon
Musk says the company is now focusing on
developing its next generation
spacecraft starship a couple weeks back
nice NASA and SpaceX successfully lost
astronauts from US soil for the first
time in almost a decade according to an
internal email sent to staff musk said
that the development on starship is now
the primary focus for the company
alongside the safe return of the crew
dragon from the international space
station starship was unveiled last
September and is designed to carry a
crew and cargo to the moon Mars or
anywhere else in the solar system
according to the billionaire Musk's
intention is to make the spaceflight
vehicles as reusable as planes four
years ago the billionaire outlined his
vision of building a colony on Mars in
our lifetimes with the first rocket
propelling humans to the red planet by
2025 for many years the company used an
image of the Martian surface being
terraformed turned earth-like in his
promotional material however a NASA
spent a sponsored study published in
2018 dismissed these plans as impossible
with today's technology last year Musk
tweeted he believed it was possible to
make a self-sustaining City on Mars by
2050 if we start in five years according
to SpaceX is most recent detailed plans
published in 2016 there are two phases
for the first human transmissions as
part of a programming to colonize Mars
the first will take place in 2022 when
at least two starship rockets will land
on Mars these will be unmanned
spacecraft but containing drones and
robots which will confirm
there are sufficient resources of water
on the planet and check for any
Geographic risks the second phase will
start in 2024 when another pair of
starship spacecraft will land on Mars
with the first astronauts these
spacecraft will bring equipment and
supplies as well as a number of
production plants for ongoing life on
the planet as well as develop a base of
operations separately the successful
mission for NASA has given the company a
boost ahead of the US Space Agency's new
moon landing program which will return
humans to the moon by 2024 and lay the
groundwork for a manned mission to Mars
NASA's new Artemis program is named
after the mythological sister of Apollo
the first moon missions namesake and is
intended to fly the first woman to the
moon the Artemis program will be used as
a way to develop something called the
lunar gateway essentially a version of
the ISS but orbiting the moon allowing
it to be used as a stepping-stone for
missions destined for Mars nASA has
given SpaceX and Blue Origin the nod to
develop its new lunar landers which will
take the first woman and the next man to
the surface of the Moon thanks Becca
we've got to take a quick break when we
come back our crypto correspondent
Robert Koenig is here to share the
status of the cryptocurrency market and
Becca has more tech news stick around
[Music]
welcome to the crypto corner and you're
welcome to the weekly crypto news and as
usual let's take a look into how the
market performed over the last seven
days as you can see we've got several
projects that gained over 15% the winner
is wax with almost 60 percent loop ring
with 50% and so on most of these
projects are really serious and good
projects with huge teams behind them
which is great news for the industry on
the losing side the only two projects
about 15% one is hex the other one is
hedge trade which is yeah just show us
how the market is performing at the
moment it's on the up next headline is
Bitcoin core released the version zero
point two there's one feature in it that
it's worth mentioning which is the ASM
AP and that is a software part of the
software that prevents attacks by nation
states and this feature makes it
possible to limit the number of nodes
that are connected to any specific
autonomous system so previously a
country a huge country could attack the
Bitcoin blockchain this can now be
prevented so that's also good news next
one is a small project that everybody
can use create your own token so with
this software now put a link down below
you can create your own token so you you
enter the token name the token symbol
the number of decimals you want to have
the maximum supply you click on create
token and voila you have your own token
created you can put that token even on
an exchange in credit liquidity so if
you've got a great idea this is a
perfect tool that you can use to put
that idea into practice or if you just
want to have a present a birthday
present there you have got another idea
next one is pwc one of the largest
accounting firms they created a
a crypto hedge fund report and I just I
will also put a link of that report in
the the description down below the
highlights here are from my point of
view that of those hedge funds that they
analyzed 97 percent hold Bitcoin
I wonder what what the other three are
doing but anyway 97 percent hold Bitcoin
followed by a theorem XRP litecoin
Bitcoin cash and yaws no other coins are
mentioned in that report that are worth
any substantial amount those hedge funds
mainly operating in the US and the UK
the two big financial hubs in the world
and they're based in the Cayman Islands
US and British Virgin Islands so low tax
havens the market is increased by 30
percent although that's still very small
it increased from 2 billion to 3 billion
this year I said it's still a small
market next one is d Phi which is my
favorite subject because that one define
in itself will start the next will run
in our market I'm pretty sure about that
if you look here that Lending Club which
is a big peer-to-peer lender here in the
US they originated 250 million dollar
loans in the first five years well maker
which is our peer-to-peer lender
originated 2.4 billion loans in the last
well 5 years if I look into defined
market cap which is like when market cap
but only for the td5 industry you can
see that we are running on 2.2 billion
dollars market cap at the moment maker
Dow of course is the number one but
everything is green as you can see here
so and that also reflects on what I see
out there in the market I went to see a
few forums defy form or
forms the the they had no idea on what
is going on in our market they don't
understand this year they don't know
what the smart contract is they don't
understand defy they always translate it
back to what they're accustomed to with
a middle person creating the market but
don't understand that this can be done
much much easier and by far more
efficient than what we've seen in the
traditional system so this one here the
defy market is one to take care on watch
anyway that's it for me from this week I
hope you're well and I wish you the best
and thank you very much for watching and
see you next week hopefully thank you
thank you Robert just a reminder to
those of you who are watching at home we
are not providing financial advice here
on the show we're just simply giving you
the facts about the cryptocurrency
market and leaving the decisions up to
you just be mindful cryptocurrency is an
ever-changing market it's always
volatile and we suggest that you only
invest what you can afford to lose now
back to Becca Thank You Ravi traveling
during the pandemic can be tough that's
why the latest version of Google Maps
for Android and iOS has several features
that might help travelers get around
safely now when you look up public
transit directions maps will show kovat
19 related alerts Google points out that
data will only be available where it can
get info from the local transit agencies
and only on trips that are likely to be
affected by kovat 19 restrictions these
alerts are rolling out in Argentina
Australia Belgium Brazil Colombia France
India Mexico Netherlands Spain Thailand
United Kingdom and the US and Google
says they're going to they're coming to
more countries soon Maps will also
display alerts when you navigate to
medical facilities or kovat 19 testing
centers warning you to verify
eligibility and facility guidelines to
avoid being turned away or causing
additional strain on the local health
care system alerts for medical
facilities are rolling this week in
Indonesia Israel the Philippines South
riah and the u.s. alerts for testing
centers will only be available in the US
again google says it will only show
these alerts when it can get
authoritative data from local state and
federal governments or from their web
sites google says the app will also tell
you how crowded buses Subway's and
transit stations will be plus you'll be
able to see when a transit station has
historically been less busy so you can
plan ahead Google says these features
are powered by aggregated and anonymized
data from users who opted in to Google
location history they'll be rolling out
in the next several weeks
finally the app will show you driving
alerts notifying you about kovat 19
checkpoints and restrictions along your
route for example when crossing national
borders this feature will initially only
be available in Canada Mexico and the
u.s. Lenovo has announced that they're
including Ubuntu as a pre-loaded OS
option or a number on a number of their
systems starting this summer lenovo is
already well represented within the
linux hardware community having
certified a swath of its devices for
various different distros over the years
and the company recently revealed plans
to sell laptops preloaded with fedora
and make more firmware updates available
through the vendor neutral linux vendor
firmware service but now it's going even
further with the Linux love lenovo says
all of its think station and ThinkPad
p-series laptops will be available to
buy with a boon - LTS preloaded and not
just a few specific configurations
stashed away on a hard to find storage
page somewhere while the same devices
can be bought with Windows 10 or Red Hat
Enterprise Linux pre-installed it's
still a major win for Ubuntu and the
wider Linux community the company also
says it will upstream device drivers
directly to the Linux kernel to help
maintain stability and compatibility
throughout the life of the workstation
of course it's easy enough to buy a
think pad running Windows and install
Ubuntu manually
but the official support means buyers
can be certain that all hardware works
with Ubuntu out of the box no drivers to
hunt down or config files to edit
presumably it also means some cost
savings as well since a Windows license
need not be included lenovo says ubuntu
LTS benefits from an extended five-year
support cycle providing increased user
confidence and system stability across
the deployment canonical the company
behind boon - performs certification and
regression testing on these systems on
an ongoing basis to ensure that it
remains as stable as possible for
end-users the United States space force
was only announced two years ago and has
yet to engage in any military operations
but the latest branch of the US Armed
Forces already stands to lose his first
battle - Netflix's space force the
streaming service premiered its new
comedy series space force on may 29th
the show's name has no relation to the
newest organization of the US military
which unveiled its official flag only
two weeks earlier because of the common
moniker though the United States space
forces first battle might be a trademark
war fought in courts rather than in
space attorneys for the US military have
done little to secure the space force
name as a registered trademark Netflix
however has been far more aggressive and
has already locked down the rights to
the name in several countries despite
sharing a name both entities have plenty
of room to maneuver without evoking much
confusion the streaming comedy is
unlikely to make as viewers think
they're watching a series about an
actual branch of the US military the
u.s. space force meanwhile has yet to
get off the ground
both litoris both literally and
figuratively
while Netflix effort was the first to
come to fruition the u.s. space force
was first announced by President Donald
Trump in March 2018 the military branch
was officially established as a formal
organization last December Netflix
meanwhile greenlit a 10 episode series
in January 2019 created by Greg Daniel
and Steve Carrell space 4 stars Carell
john malkovich ben schwartz diana
silvers and tani Newsome season 1 is
currently available on Netflix
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at patreon.com slash
category 5 from the category 5 TV
newsroom I'm Becca Ferguson
