[Music]
scientists have developed a brain
implant that can read people's minds and
turn their thoughts into speech the team
at the University of California San
Francisco says their findings published
in the journal Nature could help people
when disease robs them of their ability
to talk experts said the findings were
compelling and offered hope of restoring
speech the mind-reading technology works
in two stages first an electrode is
implanted in the brain to pick up the
electrical signals that maneuver the
lips tongue voice box and jaw then
powerful computing is used to simulate
how the movements in the mouth and
throat would be would form different
sounds this results in synthesized
speech coming out of a virtual vocal
tract instead of scouring the brain for
the pattern of electrical signals that
code each word the focus is on the shape
of the mouth and the sounds it would
produce Professor Edward Chang one of
the researchers said quote for the first
time this study demonstrated that we can
generate an entire spoken sentences
based on an individual's brain activity
and quote the technology is not perfect
yet but shows incredible promise here
let's listen to an actual recording of
the system reading its users brainwaves
and saying quote the proof you are
seeking is not available in books the
premature seating is sign the livonian
moves as you can hear it's not quite
perfect but keep in mind that was
generated by reading someone's
brainwaves in experiments with five
people who read hundreds of sentences in
their heads listeners were able to
discern what was being spoken up to 70%
of the time beyond helping restore
speech there is also the more distant
prospect of helping people who have
never spoken to learn to speak with such
a device an example might be a child
with cerebral palsy
professor Sophie Scott from the
University College London said quote
this is very interesting work from a
great lab but it must be noted that it
is at the very early stages and is not
close to clinical Apple
patience yet well you can say that but
that is incredible so like why didn't
they think of this before because it's
like my approach to weight loss this
year is like I'm not trying to lose
weight no I'm trying to learn how how my
body reacts to certain things so
similarly they're learning the the
movement of the mouth like the same way
like I think about like false limbs like
robotic limbs they use nerves to
actually control the hand and everything
so this is like that but moving of false
mouth in a way to make the sounds the
interesting thing about this though is
the fact that it's using the brain
signals that would go to the mouth and
voice box implies that you have to have
already been able to speak right that's
why they're saying eventually it will be
right so I think it would be hard to
train somebody who's never spoken and
maybe that's it
yeah exactly so like I'm sitting there
thinking you know you might have like a
nonverbal autistic child yes you
wouldn't be able to use this not the
weight room that's not necessarily true
though because we don't and and there
are cases certainly where it's not going
to be applicable and another case would
be somebody who stopped speaking because
of say brain brain damage that has
affected their ability to generate those
signals so but what if the signal cutoff
is somewhere between the brain and the
mouth and the vocal cords what if like I
you're talking about the a child who
can't speak well sometimes you'll see
them moving their mouth but there's no
sound coming out and so there are cases
where maybe maybe the brain is sending
the signal but maybe it's not being
interpreted correctly or maybe there's a
nerve that's not functioning correctly
who knows right but this is a case where
it's not gonna work for it's not a
cure-all for everyone right but with 70%
accuracy this well here's the thing this
is the starting point the starting point
is 70% I can't even believe they're here
they know it'll be interesting to see
how this plays into things like
end-of-life care and legal rights as far
as ability to take care of themselves I
mean how many people have you seen their
health deteriorates and they end up in a
position where they can no longer
communicate but if it's muscular right
but maybe in their head they still have
the ability to person slot them is like
ALS exactly yeah yeah totally great
