I have the Star Trek The Next Generation
tricorder replica this comes to us from
running press and you've probably seen
these in bookstores but the ones that
I've been seeing are little itty bitty
replicas and this one apparently is
something that I actually want we're
gonna find out as I get into the Box
today and we're gonna see if this is
something that you want to add to your
collection as well I'll pull out the
knife so this is like fresh unboxing you
this is it we've got okay Deluxe mega
kit so this is not just any mega kit
this is a deluxe mega kit what else have
we got on the box Star Trek The Next
Generation interesting that the text is
the original Star Trek followed by the
next generation that's kind of just a an
observation there's the Box there ages 7
and up yeah I pass well alright
debatable yeah let's get into it so is
it actually now Jeff I really wanted
this because I had a tricorder replica
as a child as someone 7 and up okay
we've got stickers so it looks like some
assembly required so you're going to
need an adult kids I had a tricorder but
as the little tinkerer maker that I was
I wanted to add more LEDs to it and so I
punctured holes in it and I damaged it
up and everything else oh and it has oh
it came with batteries I wasn't sure if
it was going to come with batteries okay
I've removed the tab this does not
appear to be a replica sized tricorder
but certainly bigger than the ones that
is some of the ones that I've seen right
let's open oh no oh okay
that kind of looks nice
yeah there's no signs of life over there
oh listen that's an actual tactile
clicking there you go
okay so stickers on whoa it's self
closing sad ain't half-bad spring
activated yeah okay so so how do you put
the stickers on how the heck do you put
the stickers on if you were data you'd
be able to put it like that and get a
sticker and oh okay let's look at the
the instructions here Jeff because I
know you want to yes
okay they're numbered okay that helps us
we've got a diagram that shows us where
each sticker goes so one is going to go
where's that Oh up here okay
one is gonna go up here there yeah
there okay shall we try Jeff I think so
one don't put it on the wrong way okay
if I got it the right way according to
the diagram it appears yeah I seem to
okay this one's easy enough I love that
it's texture and we're putting on
stickers yeah it's a sticker so you know
the replica nature of it that it's
stickers but these are nice stickers I
mean this is like shiny metallic glossy
kind of decals it's not it's not too bad
let's see how it looks okay - where's -
two is there so where does that go I
don't know Jeff I feel like you need to
take it home for assembly purposes
figure it out and then play with it
we've got a little booklet here that has
some
I kind of laugh at this folks I mean
we've got a picture of MCC 1701 then
we've got a quote by Jadzia Dax oh my
gosh I mean funny yeah so oh there's NCC
1701 D what does it say okay at least
we're right era pictures from TOS
there's TNG TNG's bridge a tricorder
from TOS another tricorder from TOS some
information that will Riker what else we
got here NCC 1701 D is that D yes it's
only got tuna cells
yeah what else we got I'll Beverly
Crusher some text text a real tricorder
there you go from the show put the open
that up and stick it to your wall
remember it's back in the day it's not
that big to stay yeah I know that looks
like a medical tricorder and what else
Oh Wesley Crusher right at the oh let's
think yes Larry is the young Wesley
holding a tricorder well there you have
it okay so let's let's fade to black and
come back there you are Jeff and Jeff
figured out that you can actually pull
it a little bit harder and it won't
close all by itself though you can it
clips there you go so I've got all the
stickers on I notice it like this one
doesn't want to stay Jeff right okay you
may have to press it down at the corners
just to yeah there you have it it's
available cap 5 dot TV slash tricorder
it does look pretty good for like a prop
if you want to go to Comic Con or
whatever else or just add it to your to
your kit through your costume and that's
definitely a good addition anyway
[Music]
[Applause]
