covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias google has released the code
for their internally developed
artificial intelligence tapas they can
take a natural language question such as
what's the name of the latest iPhone and
fetch the answer from a relational
database or spreadsheet and it's now
open source the search giant's
researchers detailed the AI on Thursday
tapas is based on Bert a natural
language processing technique that
Google uses in its search engine a
sizable portion of the world's
information is relational that is to say
organized into rows and columns
navigating from these rows and columns
historically required either manually
shift lifting through a spreadsheet or
writing SQL queries natural language
processing makes the task considerably
easier for users which is why the
technology has been extensively adopted
by Google and other players in the
analytics market the search giant says
that the toughest beats or matches the
three top open-source algorithms for
parsing relational data they train the
AI on 6.2 million tables from the
English version of Wikipedia and then
set it to work on a trio of academic
datasets benchmark tests that showed
that the neural network provides
accurate comparable answers as the rival
algorithms across all three data sets
the type of language processing google
has implemented into tapas allows the AI
to consider not only the question posed
by users in the data they wish to query
but also the structure of the relational
tables in which the data is stored tapas
can go beyond just fetching data and
also perform basic calculations for
example if a business user evaluating
sales data asked for the average revenue
across their company's three most
popular products the AI would reply with
the calculated answer not just the data
set Pappas is available now on the
Google research github repository
[Music]
