whoa and welcome to today's soup break
I'm not sure if I'm doing this right hey
Ramon second 2020 nice to see you guys
hey bp9 repaints
I see soul who is going to be here
working on his grand entrance and
Peter's here Rory hi Peter are you a
related going I can hear you a little
better cuz I'm not in my office I'm up
in the kitchen yesterday I couldn't come
up in the kitchen because with with the
whole thing going on we've really
stepped up our sanitization like
cleaning schedule so the cleaners were
here and they were working on the
kitchen area at the time so I wasn't
allowed in there
my wife years ago Mildred my you are
huge bill to directly go Milton for the
ballet
what huge builted ugly go Milton they
did not I figured out what blue box is
it's a it's a WiMAX service yeah very
very simple there's a matter of fact to
to what we were using video II studio D
because we had a ubiquity on the roof
pointed at a tower using like you think
woody I still have to get that from the
studio but I want to have I want to have
a spotter there with me because I got to
get up on the roof of that big building
in order to get down our tower and I
didn't think that was a good idea to do
by myself but it's kind of hard there's
distance exactly and we finally got some
blue skies and sunny skies so that's at
least nice because with all the rain I
was definitely not gonna get up on a tin
roof that's Richard vp9 yes sir I don't
know what you've gone done to me but I
ordered a pint I'm oh good
not Joe this just sounds way too good to
be true and when I saw the price I was
just like why not what yeah exactly what
was it was like twenty nine bucks okay
stay stay six feet apart bill look at
all these carbs that Robin named yes
yeah but I don't have chopsticks so I
had to break it up yes have any things
happened to you on April Fool's Day
yesterday I cancelled April Fool's Day
bub yeah you did mm-hm
we didn't get the message worldwide we
didn't get the memo oh dear what good
road here well first of all she replaced
the soft you know like the hand soap and
the pump bottles in the bathrooms with
so I thought oh she she didn't do every
bathroom service with different bathroom
to wash my hands again and yeah she did
that bathroom too and then every every
April Fool's Day we have a a April
Fool's dinner and everybody makes a
different dish that looks like something
but it's something else and so so Renata
my oldest daughter made cinnamon rolls
but they weren't cinnamon rolls they
were barbecued pulled pork rolls really
good and then Marika my youngest
daughter made
horse dung whether they're actually
brownies I made coffee with cream which
was warmed up root beer and a coffee pot
with melted vanilla ice cream float I
was hoping that would be I was hoping
that would be Kahlua yeah well that
sounds fun I'm glad you're having fun
yeah so to talk about today well I got a
pine time because bp9 has been talking
about this pine time and you've been
talking about it and I'm just like okay
I need to get in on this action so I've
made I've made some progress to which
I'll describe when everybody like did
you hear that the the pine phone UV
ports Edition is available for pre-order
now I did not but I will definitely get
whatever is available for school just
today it's available so awesome so are
um are you distributing those or random
wouldn't have to gather them from the
patch
yeah we we are gonna be distributing
them but they're they're only in
pre-order phase right now at the pine
store do you happen to have any inkling
as to when the pine time will be
shipping so bp9 and I have both ordered
from the pine store have you seen any
word on when the shipping date is
because it really doesn't show you a bp9
it's like no money we got your money
we'll send it Sunday are you talking
about the time developer kit or the okay
I can find out
bo has insider access he can find out
all kinds of stuff
he's like my design ATL yellow the owner
964 yeah go well that's okay we don't
need to argue about it so Robbie made
some progress on the on the pine time
Victor display that I was describing I
threw a picture up on the on the screen
a while ago but I can well let me do it
again real stuff that I'm not allowed to
charge bow types allowed on that
mechanical keyboard that none of us can
see you know there we go there's the
there's the Victor display of the clock
face do you see that yeah okay yeah so
this program is running on Linux and
I've already but it said before that I
use that I used gtk for my UI toolkit so
the thing is that this is not the
version that it's going to be running on
the on the point time watch what this is
what I had to do was to figure out what
the XY coordinates of each of those tick
marks we're going to be and I don't know
if you saw on the image but the 12
o'clock 3 o'clock 6 o'clock and 9
o'clock tick marks were extra-large the
1 o'clock 2 o'clock and each of the 5
minute tick marks were slightly smaller
and then each of the individual minute
mark
we're even smaller still so I had to
figure out budget on a 320 by 320
display I had to say okay we do each of
these tick marks begin and end what are
the XY coordinates for each of these
tick marks from one end of the line to
the other end of the line and so I feel
like each time which is what this
program does that's but the end of it
the end result is that all I have to do
is we can extract the XY coordinates of
each of those tick marks all I have to
do is extract out the XY coordinates of
those tick marks and then put them in an
array and then the program on the
pointer just draws what the array says
to draw are you documenting this process
bp9 I could be I just imagine - well
other developers are probably going to
have to go through the same steps right
well that depends on if they like to use
victor implementation or if they like to
use the the PNG image file in the back
in sine theta and later the extra Y
defender you did amazing that extra mile
provoked and then you'll get weather
tick tock that draws a circle the block
code on their dying bones there you go
that's what this program is that I can
even make the program print a out to a
file the actual C code that would
describe that array with the very values
pre-populated in it then I can literally
just take that header file included in
my regular project we're done right then
it's just a question of displaying on
yesterday's coffee break vp9 you you had
kind of let on that you were starting to
lean toward the ping and now
working back on the vector is there a
reason that you decided I was thinking I
understand it at least yeah I think I
was thinking about that last night or
yesterday afternoon when we talked after
we talked about it
I saw the description on the video I
didn't I did not want to give the
impression that I felt like the PNG was
the better approach I'm still sticking
with the vector approach someone else on
the on the call asked me if I was going
to do both and I said yeah absolutely
if only just to understand how they work
that's the that's the point I want to be
able to understand how they work with
which whichever one I end up using
ultimately is likely going to be the
vector one because I like the nice
simple display and I think I've already
figured I think I figured out now how I
want to update the watch face each time
the minute hand or the second hand takes
over I think that what I can do is to
erase the second hand at its current
position then redraw the entire watch
face because it out very quick because I
can do that because it's all vector
based and then just draw the new draw
the new second hand in the new position
and I think that will work quite quite
well because the CPU in that pond time
runs quite fast I want to say 600 Meg
but I don't think that's right I think
it's I think it's probably 60 or
something like there's any case Palicki
for attacks mm right yeah just a
cortex-m processor so yeah can see the
inflate-a-pack and the thing is that the
faster runs of course the Mojito
generates the more power it uses so you
don't want it to run too fast
and while CPU is one part of it the be
how fast you can update the display is
another part of it so we'll have to see
how fast the display responds I
definitely do not want to clear the
display between each update
what I want to do is as I said wherever
the second hand is now erase it so all I
have is just that line that has yeah
okay I miss anything wrong
yeah then redraw the whole clock face
which will just restore that one line
but I don't have to worry about what if
I
drawing that that or leaving that second
hand in the old location it should just
restore those bits that were that were
wiped out then draw the new second hand
at that point so it should be a very
minimal effect on the display I'm hoping
I'd like to see the refresh rate and see
if it looks like it slashes or if it's
exactly yeah and that's why I don't want
to erase the display each time because I
know that's going to be very noticeable
for sure but if all I do is wipe out the
old redraw and that will just refresh
what was wiped out then draw the new
second hand I think that'll be the most
efficient approach we go beyond what
they did a second you your brain don't
notice it if they did that that good
early days of wonders of the second you
won't notice that brave didn't change
because yeah I just don't know what the
refresh rate of the screen is so I'm I
think it's fast enough I'd obviously
don't know but I can certainly get the
display yeah ultimate that all the
elements of the display in place and
then see what happens
I can't wait what's the worst could
happen right I want to I want to say hi
real quick so we've got Peter Lewis at
the top right we've got Sabu in the
bottom left this is like that old
Hollywood Squares show we got build
Marshall in the middle we've got run
Morissette on the right we've got Bo
from a Mara draw it on the bottom left
we've got Peter in two places today it's
got two webcams right on the bottom
middle and then we've got vp9 in the
bottom right Bo did you have success
finding out of it like an ETA for us
well let's see responded yet but the CPU
in the mine time is a cortex m4 at 64
megahertz 64 megahertz
yeah that makes more sense yeah 60 yeah
yeah that sounds good again depends on
how fast the display responds yes as I
recall I don't think the display
responds terribly fast so if that's the
case one thing you could do is you could
keep one copy of the watch face in
memory and after you draw the watch hand
like the second hand let's say then to
erase the second hand you just pick the
pixels that the watch hand contained
from the original watch face without the
watch hand on it and over draw with that
that way it would replace all of your
tick marks and everything but just for
the second hand part forbidden hand
partner which everybody redrawing right
yeah that right that's another approach
and I can certainly do that it didn't
have to be really really slow but I'm
not I'm not sure yet how power slowed
the display is and I just want to try it
try it that way first and if I have to
then I'll be really selective as you
described both be very selective about
which pixels I wipe out and restored
because the second hand ticks around I
saw what was that eight megahertz right
good good good your memory to memory as
like I would okay one one stored in
there made it so she I would probably
out of the with a copy command memory
tube every hundred is great in the gap
that would be very fast
yeah it sounds like well again it all
depends on how fast the display respond
you can have any copies of the watch
facing memories you want if it if it
takes half a second to copy of
from memory to the watch face you know
to the display it won't matter it won't
matter how how many copies you've got so
what we're saying is we're not going to
be streaming YouTube on our on our Smart
Watch oh yeah this watch is very very
simple
and curiously enough I correct me if I'm
wrong bow but I don't think there's a
real-time clock chip in the device it
looks like every piece that I found it
looks like you have to get the time from
somewhere to initialize it like a
Bluetooth time server or something
initialize it and then it'll keep track
of time after that but I don't think it
knows what that seems to make sense yeah
I notice that even on like my Fitbit I
don't think if you restart the without
the Bluetooth on it's just funny that
it's called a pint time but it doesn't
have a real-time clock on it they
understand that we're going to be
syncing it to our phones right remember
though that we're going to we're going
to be syncing this to a Linux phone the
Pine Point phone so we'd better make
sure we understand how to publish such a
service on a Linux machine so that'll be
one of my tasks as well I'll hand out
that also on the phone victory is over
you guys carry on there that were
damaged and about to pound it devote
major budget no no $4.99 both I drove
out at 30 million it's got that one
image quite noisy like a good project
bomb maker it was very very evident by
the joy and of course are deeply
affected by this as well but when a new
bully 830 million and even at zero you
know what I'd like to put that voltmeter
in Peter would be like if I was creating
a like a step-down controller
something like that something I could
give 110 volts to and step it down to
five or twenty volts to be able to
actually see it on the display would be
credible ungodly a double Jeff one of
the eye dreadful needs to make an O 230
volt bath but Williams no need of that a
dot of computer Kylie medium because
I've got no bench or working properly so
I get James about my colleague about a
major body of the dog doubly glad egg
colorful may give it back to me but
abusing it's a born of the I dress for
my geography I have got four transits in
or they at the Apple Begleiter 51 rage
in parallel they put those all over a
wider done you get a nerd yet you'd
break it up
yes sir Robbie don't forget that
dropping 110 volts there and to do was
it 5 volts or so just remember that's AC
to DC as well so you need to ring the
fire to make see also yeah I had a DC
adapter that was like 12 or 24 volts and
I wanted to step down then that would
make boilin if I was to use the easiest
quickest way to do it it's just a
cannibalize a an old switching power
supply out of an old AC because you
could you may have already done it maybe
that trick you did I picked up off cap 5
I don't know but you can plug in the
switching power supply off of a PC you
get 12 volts 5 volts you be negative 5
volts and negative 12 do you okay yep so
all the voltages you want to write this
sure so what I might be p9 I bought a
a little PCB that has an ATX header on
it and it was a taste shot wasn't it no
your tea cobbler I know the raspberry
pie I think that's for the that's for
the gpio to be able to use the you die a
really old computer that was the one you
get the big brunt my guys they jump in
there but you did wings back to ground
returns if they go on the side can you
get all right well a nipple brew by our
little buddy bubble 120 I'm well that's
the thing you get such a high damage so
so I have this PCB that you plug the ATX
into and it gives you it actually has
banana plugs bp9 mm-hmm so you can so
you can unscrew it and then I just use a
piece of a piece of ethernet cable as my
so just got that like the cat 5 I've
unwound it and I just use that as a lead
and so I've got my bolt going to
whatever and then I've got 12 volts that
I can step down or or whatever I want to
do but is that another Ida fruit product
that one's actually something that I
pulled off of like gearbest or some some
Chinese manufacturer store like that was
like a little four dollar idea I'll
unite the advantage but that competed I
that's it but I didn't want to I didn't
want to do as bp9 suggests analyzing
cannibalizing the power supply oh there
you go apparently my battery as 0 volts
on it but it still lights up the display
speaking of power I'm looking at the
current cost of the power and then today
there was an article that the average
power is about one sense and kilowatt
hour for the last month and they
currently it's five cents per kilowatt
hour and it's the middle of winter here
it's been raining a lot so all the water
magazines are filling up a bridge might
have a bigger you'd be back on the thing
to keep it dry over the prefatory in it
cuz it just goes up and down you ready
to on the back did go up because out for
now me know that young people divert the
main link or big wood box a big offering
and will actually uv8 you pH you know
that boy will I designed by you develop
with a large batteries at by Georgia and
if the tide was obvious - bon soir au l
will go better that way out or not right
is why did learn very big I just I just
moved a bunch of 1500 milliamp hour UPS
is so I know exactly the word that the
would after the baby oil might you be a
I'm about to order another UPS because I
have a yet today six hours ago and the
powers up for two seconds
and up here I have our ups but my server
downstairs it'll feel of power and then
I'll go down to power it on so I have
nothing I have half a dozen UPS's I
don't need new ups as I need you
UPS batteries yes can you even get that
oh yes you think oh my god I wonder if
you'd have trouble getting them in but I
because I work at a place that
refurbishes them I have access to
batteries so I'll pay em you then I want
to talk to you about that dodgeball
budget and that I did to work it well
yeah all month workers workers ever say
anything usually the one day in UPS it's
important to remember when you're
changing a UPS battery that they're not
all made equal or so kind of like
printer cartridges you know how printer
cartridges you've got the normal yield
and the high yield there are batteries
that there are some batteries that are
going to last longer and provide a
better yeah
yeah and there is another thing you also
have you also have to reconfigure the
actual you and UPS system to account for
the new battery and because the charge
it is it can't hold is different than
the old one it can hold Alice in charge
and the battery of a song for some
reason ever it it accounts for that so
you have to reset yes somehow yours must
be a smile UPS of some sort because I've
never encountered that okay so if you
replace it with the same part number
same chemistry
same voltage it should just work right
kind of it accommodates the fact that a
Battery depletes over the years yeah
I don't know toy boy I do when I
appeared and get full of a dodgeball
battery to a million per John um as only
network while well the other the other
problem where the bag of loading off
every time just one more measure a year
I play big site they all rolled
everywhere they've got God I walk world
rate was born nine bad the by boom it'll
draw and they did well undescribable the
wafer we done did God born a night
reindeer Geno throwing my big data will
have full of bloody horrible pouch
everywhere where people world a why the
I bet that makes sense Peter but the
thing is that the UPS is that that I
have don't take a car battery so I can't
just slap in a car battery an agenda to
work put in the same battery is what it
came with all right guys we do need to
wrap up it's been a half-hour so it's
been nice having you here for our coffee
break today of course we do this every
single day so be here again tomorrow if
you'd like to join us it's been fun guys
I've learned a lot and I hope that those
who are watching this on demand to enjoy
our discussion and and I really
appreciate you guys coming together and
doing this with me because you know what
I've been feeling the I'm calling at the
cove in Bern I'm just like I'm just done
yeah so it's just nice to get together
and talk about anything else because
it's all that we hear right now so I
just want you guys to know that I
appreciate you thank you for joining me
today
well I enjoyed as much as you do Robbie
so thank you to the bunch of fun so
physical distance yes yeah exactly
guys take care have a great afternoon
see you later
you
