covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias seven years ago Facebook
claimed not to support the 21st
century's new favorite communication
tool
the animated jiff oh how times have
changed now Facebook's newest
acquisition is one of the Internet's
most popular jiff hosting sites Facebook
is making Jiffy part of the Instagram
team the deal is reportedly valued at
about 400 million according to Facebook
about half of jiffy's current traffic
already comes from Facebook products
especially Instagram that's perhaps
unsurprising given that Facebook's big
three apps whatsapp Instagram and
Facebook itself have billions of daily
users among them giphy was in fact the
first service to make animated images
work on Facebook
it created a workaround back in 2013
when Facebook's now laughable official
stance was Facebook does not support
animated gifs
although animated reaction images may
seem and kind of are inconsequential in
the grand scheme of things the deal is
likely to attract a significant amount
of scrutiny from federal regulators the
Justice Department Congress and the
Federal Trade Commission are already all
delving into even the smallest lowest
value acquisitions that big tech firms
such as Facebook have made in the last
decade scouring them for patterns of
anti-competitive behavior Gylfie is by
no means the only just search and
hosting platform on the Internet but it
is one of the largest several other
platforms including Twitter use its API
for gifs support both Facebook and
Gylfie promised access will continue in
its announcement jiffy specifically said
for our API SDK partners and developers
jiffy's gifs stickers emojis etc aren't
going anywhere we will continue to make
Gylfie openly available to the wider
ecosystem with the announcements fail
what the announcements failed to mention
however is the fact that Facebook can
now have access to all the data
generated by those searches and API
calls from other platforms and using
acquisitions to gather data on can
is exactly the sort of behavior Facebook
is under investigation for right now
[Music]
