a few weeks back Becca reported in the
news room about how Samsung had bricked
oh I know millions of their blu-ray
players yeah
unreal they pushed out an update that
wrecked all of their blu-ray players any
blu-ray player that was connected to the
web which you buy what do you does
anyone buy a blu-ray player to play
blu-rays tell me honestly
no we they're smart they have YouTube
they have Netflix they got Amazon Prime
video whatever else built in and and so
that's and and the convenience of yes it
can play blu-ray and DVD and even music
CDs I do do you I do I'm very nostalgic
you know that about remember the last
time I bought a CD I liberal downloads
yeah I just can't do it I can't do it
I'll do Digital rentals of videos but
music I need a physical CD but that said
they bricked all of their blu-ray
players crazy but it went to show that a
big company can make a little mistake
that can cause a lot of damage and you
don't want to brick a bunch of people's
media players no in the middle of a
pandemic so at least I'll give them
kudos Samsung has stepped up to the
plate and said this was our error we
will pay to fix it yep yep if you
contact your Samsung rep they will
actually give you a FedEx shipping label
and they will fix it and they will
return it to you entirely at their
expense even if it's out of warranty Wow
right so they've done they've done good
I can't imagine they haven't lost all
profit from that hundred and twenty
dollar blu-ray player that you've ever
that you purchased from Walmart right
yeah
but they they've done good that's how a
company should react when they screw up
I feel like this is a lead-up to a
company who screwed up so back to our
Wednesday anybody want to look up
Wednesday what is today the
what as we're shooting this uh it is the
15th of July the 15th of July - I feel
like this was the Cova day for tech like
it just went nuts this day was brutal so
I got to work Jeff and my colleague who
is working in support right now because
we've got two people who are stranded
because of closed airports due to Cove
at 19 and one person who is on vacation
who can't actually travel but is still
taking it easy for the next couple of
days so my technician is uber stressed
out on what's going on he says well
we've got a big customer who is having
trouble with their email and I can't
figure it out I just can't get to the
bottom of it and we talked about it for
about 15 minutes and tried to okay we'll
try this try that blah blah blah no
solution but huh no no I went and sat at
my desk right and then the phone started
ringing and the first call that I took
was somebody whose outlook was crashing
and so that's pretty but that can happen
especially they've got roaming profiles
the guy has disconnected his laptop from
the network and walked away before
closing outlook and disk basically
disconnected his right PST file so now
he's watched his email profile right
that happened so I remote it in I've got
the manager of the company on the phone
and and I'm remoted in and and I've
recreated his profile in Outlook and and
I am ready to resync all of his email
open outlook and it crashes really well
even after even after update and
creating a new profile so then it's okay
well on to step two go into add remove
programs and do a repair operation so
we'll do a quick one first and that that
works but still open it and crashes okay
so okay well we'll do the full online
repair for Microsoft Office and that
should do it because that basically rips
it out and reinstalls it right and so I
ran that and that took forever
and it still crashes really so I said to
him I said look my lead tech is on
vacation this week and so he's gonna be
back on Monday let me chat with him I
want to get his thoughts on this I don't
want to waste too much of your time I'm
on the clock I'm billing for this time
and and we'll we'll circle back on
Monday after I've had a chat with him
yep
because that's not my department I'm
cybersecurity specialist so so really
like I know what I'm doing but I don't
want to waste your time and I don't want
to run up a bill if I'm not having
success right that makes sense it's fair
I'm honest so we let him go off the
phone and I moved on with my day and a
call came in that look is crashing
different what different client so this
is now three clients outlook issues and
I'm not talking little clients I'm
talking first client is 200 computers
I'm talking second client is maybe 180
third client is smaller 40 standstill
that's big yeah
many of them are okay get this
the ones who opened outlook this morning
they're not having any problems the ones
who opened it this afternoon it crashes
immediately so I started we started this
discussion talking about Samsung and how
they pushed out an update and it's it's
a mind-bending open mind opener that a
company like Samsung could push out an
update that would destroy all of their
DVD players and brew great players but
now as it turns out through
investigating and so obviously at this
point I'm like because something is
weird here so I start looking at forums
and I start looking at various sites and
and doing some searches this is before
it started trending folks Microsoft
pushed out an update for Microsoft
Office
that basically bricked Microsoft Outlook
upon the fly a midday mm-hmm why so
people who so here we are in the middle
of a business day yeah a Wednesday in a
week where people have been told by our
governments okay be socially distant but
you can reopen your office now yeah so
now they're 40 staff they're hundred and
eighty staff they're 200 plus staff are
trying to access their email and what's
happening outlook immediately crashes so
it turns out it was Microsoft pushed out
an update basically bricking Microsoft
Outlook I'm so glad I don't use
Microsoft Outlook our Linux using
community people are saying who uses
Microsoft Outlook not me right yeah so
has it been resolved
well the verge is reporting and Marsh
man has been so kind as to send this to
me over discord the verge is reporting
that Microsoft has rolled out an Outlook
desktop crash fix Microsoft Outlook
email apps for Windows started crashing
at launch for a number of users
everybody in the around the world today
like this so this became a trending
topic on Twitter yes and so this is a
talk about Twitter global issue we will
oh this was a global issue this doesn't
matter it like office 365 users using
pop using Zimbra using whatever you're
using if you've got your own Exchange
server but it was affecting everyone so
this was like this was the software on a
computer like if you logged into the web
portal you could still access it oh yeah
OWA was still up yeah okay and all those
things were up it was people who have it
on their computer so here's the problem
Jeff what happens when Outlook starts
crashing people think it's our computer
and who do they call tech support tech
support and tech support pushes the
magic button that starts billing them
question did you start with did you turn
it off and on again
no oh because microsoft outlook profile
corruption is a common thing
yeah that's show you recreate the
profile you start over and you resync
the email you repair install if outlook
is still non-functional where and so on
but I went through those steps and it
didn't help so as it turns out this
update so what I ended up doing is I
ended up going in and manually
uninstalling the update that came in
okay and instead installed an update
from June so basically reverted to the
previous updated version of Microsoft
Outlook right so that's that's how I was
able to fix these customers computers so
my day was toast my coworker his day was
toast
we were just feeling call after call
after call and I said on Twitter who is
responsible for the lawsuit oh it's
going that is going like I'm talking
like a grand scale lawsuit where why are
my customers this is where it's hard to
be honest folks why are my customers
having to pay my hourly rate yep to fix
Microsoft screwing up their computers
yep a samsung took the fall samsung gave
everybody free repair service they're
paying the shipping both ways and
they're getting it fixed what the heck
is Microsoft doing in this situation
nothing they won't even say much about
it
oh we fix down that'll be it that's all
they're saying the verge says hey that
problem with Microsoft Outlook that took
everybody's Outlook offline earlier
today they fixed it hooray they've
issued a patch what about all the
customers who had to pay me and their
technicians not my customers other cuz
yeah who had to have their IT staff re
do the updates on 200 computers as well
think about that Samsung's got it right
Microsoft
is dead to me that's just for a while
I'm sorry to rant but that and and that
just makes me upset I am an honest
technician I'm an honest person and I
need to be paid for my time right
exactly and the stuff that you would
plan to do you couldn't do you do
because you're dealing with this yeah
yeah so now there's this backlog of
everything that's unfortunate yeah what
do you guys think I mean a post below
let us know if you're watching this
online I'd love to hear what you think
thank you to marsh man for sending us
that article from the verge and in the
meantime if you are impacted by this
note that a subsequent update fixes the
broken update which is the update
process for Microsoft Windows
[Music]
