welcome to new every day if you got a
chocolate yes as a matter of fact I do
thank you very much it is the Easter
weekend and it is not about chocolate
but you know for me yeah chocolate
that's right we're talking about
Christ's sacrifice on the cross but not
necessarily in the conventional way that
you're thinking we're kind of pulling in
from the Old Testament the New Testament
talking about the true impact of what it
means for Christ to be the sacrifice for
our sins I'm going to be looking at
first Corinthians chapter 15 so stick
around this is you everyday with Jeff
Weston and Lawrence Cruz
[Music]
let's talk about something relevant to
Easter well I think that's a chocolate
that we got that covered cherry cream
Anthony cleaver mentioned the word bunny
check okay so and how about the topic of
the resurrection of Jesus Christ I do
think so yeah of course prior to that
his death that's right maybe we could
talk a little bit about that sure and
maybe we could bring the Bible into it
sure probably a good idea and and of
course we go to a very familiar passage
of Scripture in the Bible it's first it
we go to a very familiar passage to the
Bible first Corinthians chapter 15 okay
the resurrection chapter in first
Corinthians what do you know which takes
place well after when Christ was
resurrected well how about that
interesting written by the Apostle Paul
okay yeah two believers in a place
called Corinth and interestingly enough
Paul at the time of Jesus was all about
or should I say after the time of Jesus
was all about wiping out Christians yeah
so when he was known as salt okay yeah
for sure so it's interesting that he now
writes about the resurrection of Christ
since his conversion how about that well
like points for you noting something
noteworthy it's true it's always pretty
hardcore wasn't yes trying to clean out
people like you and me and people who
watch shows like new every day like
those people yes yeah yeah because it
was contrary to the law and that's
really what it came down to is is Saul
was part of was it the Pharisees that he
was part of let's go with the Feres it
was it was one of the sexes all right
the the sexes within the church that
where it was all about the laws and the
rules and because Christ blew all that
up mm-hmm like it changed everything and
that that wasn't on yeah so it was all
about getting rid of the Christians well
yeah there there it is pretty much it's
like he
hadn't met the Lord at that time and so
you've got all these people going around
saying hey the Messiah has come he's
like what are you talking about and that
would be an affront if you were saying
someone is the Messiah you know and and
then believing he isn't it's like how
dare you and that the strength of
everything he believes is being
challenged to the point where it's like
I got a rid you rid the earth of you
because you're really getting in the way
of the plan of God and this this is not
allowed to happen right so it's
interesting that he's the writer of
first Corinthians yeah and when you know
that backstory of where he came from
then to hear the way he writes it's like
this guy believes what he is saying yeah
he was smart cookie very much sir sure
author of one third of the New Testament
and so I'm glad he's smart and we're
doing our best to wrap our minds around
it yes so what is he saying well so
resurrection of Christ so he begins like
let me remind you brothers and sisters
so he's talking to the church he's
talking to those church people remind
them of what the good news he was a
preacher and he let him know good news
that I preached to you before you
welcomed it then and you still stand
firm in it this is good that's good look
I'm sorry gospel makes a difference in
people's lives right he said it's it's
this good news that saves you if what
conditional statement if you continue to
believe okay so it's possible Jeff I
think what I'm hearing the man say some
people here and have chosen not to
belong to believe and maybe they even
once did and no longer do and you know
what I know people like that
mmm that grew up in the church and then
something clicked and like yeah there's
no such thing as God I'm out wow that
that pains me actually like that it for
them I'm no better than anybody but oh
so it's very real yeah and that's I mean
he's speaking to those who stood the
test and said I'm not gonna not believe
right and then
they're continuing to believe he said
right so if he goes you stand firm in
this good news if you continue to
believe unless of course you believe
something that was never true in the
first place what so there's this idea
yeah what are you saying that maybe the
resurrection didn't happen like is this
what maybe this is floating around okay
is Wow mm-hmm mm-hmm so so Paul is like
hey let's let's write about this because
I'm hearing what some of you people are
saying so on verse 3 first Corinthians
15 I passed on to you what was most
important and what had also been passed
on to me okay just right there how about
that it's okay
what's God Oh what's God saying to you I
remember I was part of a church family
that we regularly welcomed that question
one of one another
hey what's God saying to you lately and
I you said what do you mean when you
read in the Bible what stood out to you
nothing new we're not coming up with all
these new fans that's not what I mean
but hey in your relationship with the
Lord as you're you know walking you're
working out your salvation with fear and
trembling as the Bible says what's good
Santi what's the current thing going on
well then we could pass that along to
other people right kind of like what
we're doing here exactly we have a topic
we begin chatting and the next thing you
know well that reminds me or and I
remember this and there's a story and
we're passing along things right well
this is what Paul has done hey was
passed on to me now let me remind you of
something most important that was passed
on to me and I want to pass it on to you
here it is ready Christ died yes he did
right there verse three first
Corinthians 15 Christ died and then it
continues for our sins and this Pharisee
you pointed out that he was just just as
the scripture said he knew this had to
happen
there was a time where he thought this
was all bogus you Christian people or
nuts and boy something happened remember
yeah Bible was acts chapter 9 as a
matter of fact and Paul's on his way to
a place called Damascus to get rid of
those numbskulls and God has other plans
right knocked him off his horse blind
talk about a jousting match thank God so
yes but no you're absolutely right the
fact that he knew the law and he knew
this the you know the Old Testament
that's what they're his whole belief
system was based on so he knew Isaiah
and all the prophecies that were given
about the coming uh yeah the the Savior
mm-hmm the one who was going to set them
free and they didn't see it yeah because
they were so focused on the rules and
the regulations they missed the
redemptive loving grace of Christ oh my
goodness but he got it yeah eventually
and there's good news for you too you
might be watching today and say you know
what these two guys like man I'm not
sure I believe what they say but they
sure believe it well yeah we do
mm-hmm and we bless you like hey we all
can we're all at a different place in
our timeline you know with the Lord and
maybe you're saying I don't quite get it
I want you to know that we do get it and
get what we believe that Jesus loves us
and we believe Jesus loves you and the
reason why we can say that we believe
this that he died for you mm-hmm and
that when Christ died for you he was
saying man I love you so much that I
want to die and take your place of death
the Bible clearly says that each one of
us deserves death what because we've all
fallen short of the glory of God and the
wages of our sin is death that's what
Romans 6 says Romans 3 and Romans 6 the
wages of sin is death so what do you get
for your wages for career for what
you've done death for you Lawrence Jeff
for you Jeff did death for every one of
us and Jesus says no no no no father I
agree with you I don't want that to
happen send me Lord to take their place
and friends that's exactly what Jesus
Christ did for you and me that's what
Easter is about
Good Friday remembers the fact that
Jesus Christ went to the cross and he
died for you
mm-hmm and he died for me and the Bible
very clearly says if you believe that
and you actively trust that he did that
for you and then put your hope in your
faith in the fact that Jesus died for
you you say Lord I believe it and I want
what you did to be applied to my life
then I promise you this is what the
Bible teaches and on the authority of
God's Word if you believe you you me we
are saved what our sins are no longer
counted against us that's good news man
it's very good news that's the gospel
that's the boy he says I want to pass
along the most important thing good news
Jesus died for our sins just as the
scripture said verse 3 oh that's awesome
it is it's very awesome and what a great
way to have a high moment heading into a
break I mean it's it's so good to just
kind of go
that's exciting it's wonderful segue
yeah that's right here today that's
right but we do have to take a break but
think about that fact if you don't know
Christ on this break contemplate that
and what that means for your life the
fact that somebody 2,000 years ago knew
exactly who you were going to be and
went to the cross for you intentionally
on purpose for you as either of you
that's right think about that while
we're on break
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today count 5 dot
TV slash shirts Jeff and I just at
breaktime we were chatting and this man
is just devouring the Bible lovely right
few thanks to the audio Bible and
turning his commute to work to and fro
right enjoy listening to the Bible and
doing other good things too but you're
just like devour what book are you in
right now right now I'm in Isaiah Isaiah
Wow that's an awesome book - it's a
heavy book - go ahead and read chapter
53 speaking about Easter yes oh my
goodness the Bible says in Isaiah 53
that he was wounded for our
transgressions right yeah right and the
chastisement that brought us peace was
upon him
this is the prophet Isaiah hundreds of
years before the birth of Christ
prophesying about Christ yes who died
what who took our sin upon him as we
were saying earlier right it's true and
so you're in that book right now I am in
that book where he started to talk about
Christ and coming but I've just finish
and say just because I've been going
through now for a couple of weeks but
I've recently come through the beginning
of the Old Testament listening to it all
the way through but going through
leviticus and all the rules and the
regulations verse numbers deuteronomy
all of the things that the israelites
had to do to atone for their sins so the
author by the way if 1st Corinthians 15
was a specialist and all of that that's
right okay he knew it inside and out and
so when you go back to those scriptures
and you read the first couple of books
of the Old Testament you get a whole new
perspective of what it means that Christ
paid the penalty for our sins okay I'm
fascinated you're telling you about this
something like what talk to me man like
something's going on yeah like I grew up
in the church and so I've heard it said
oh you know Christ died for our sins and
he's the sacrificial lamb and you know
the nice way that it's said but it never
really connected yeah you were writing
notes to your girlfriend of you this
much I find all the money in the world
but no it's the fact that like for every
type of sin there was a sacrifice and if
you didn't do that sacrifice in the way
it was meant to be done your sin was not
atone for and it got to the point that
even some of the other prophets started
saying we can't do it we can't keep up
with this we're always gonna mess it up
and so the rules and regulations for the
sin and how it was to be atoned their
sin got so great and so numerous and so
offensive that they couldn't atone for
it in the way that was prescribed
because they would never get away from
the tabernacle they're always being
sacrificed and so we needed a new way we
needed to reset the system and have a
way in which we can be redeemed from our
sin every sin in a meaningful and
once-and-for-all way and that was Christ
mmm and it's just like I get it I
totally get it I mean it's like oh if
you do this and it's like bring a bowl
and you need two goats and you need a
dove and and to be clear it could be
done rightly so that a person sins would
be atoned for yes
but they had to go back the next year
that's right and then the next year and
the next year because the Bible very
clearly says that the blood of goats and
animals could not take away sin that's
right and the heaviness of that sin was
weighty I think that's what I heard you
saying you realize like man this is a
lot and that we can't keep up you're
saying that's right yeah and and then
when you think about it's like how else
do you tone for the sin through blood in
a way that is meaningful
well you send God hmm like Jesus was God
he think he's part of the Trinity and so
God's son was the sacrifice you can't
get any closer to the heart of God than
to sacrifice your own son for Humanity
and say I've got this oh yeah so you
know in the Old Testament when they took
those animals they had to find one
without spot or wrinkle wrinkle blemish
right all of these things they it had to
be the perfect land and in some cases it
even had to be the first Wow
so it wasn't just that it was perfect it
was that it was the the first okay and
so then if somebody took any old lamb
from you know oh just use this one then
that sacrifice for sin was not accepted
right so God the Father sends his son it
was perfect God the son who is perfect
without spot without blemish he
qualifies to what Jeff take away all our
sins you who are watching all our sins
praise the Lord it's okay okay this is
why it's called
the good news of the gospel Christ took
away all our sins that is a great truth
of God's Word and following in 1st
Corinthians 15 oh there's so much like
go ahead and read it but we can tell you
Jeff and I we believe it still today
like we're not of these people who
started believing and then have faded
off saying no I don't think we believe
that anymore
Oh to borrow from our our French
neighbors Oh contraire
we still believe this with every
thing that we are believe what Christ
died for us
perfectly God fully man mm-hmm taking
our place now not that not a goat not an
animal but what a man yeah Christ needed
to come as a man so that he could once
and for all Hebrews 10 tells us his
sacrifice took away all our sins forever
and you know it's good news about that
Jeff we don't need to go back in time
that's right and year after year
sacrifice an animal in order to atone
for our sins
isn't that awesome it's so good and not
a surprise like like I keep going back
to the fact that like Paul was writing
this and just what he knew and about the
law for him this would be contrary to
everything he believed it would be so
out there that the sacrifice is no
longer required not a surprise he fought
it yeah and so many people in society in
our culture around the globe fight it
because it's contrary to what they
believe what they feel and at the end of
the day that's the leading of Satan
because Satan is very much against gosh
sure yeah entrenched in tradition that
doesn't exalt Christ so that's right I
have often thought the same thing like
please understand me I can relate to
Saul like I get it mm-hmm you know you
just do the math right about who are
these people and you know they're not
educated like unschooled ordinary men
and what and they're saying all this
like what's going on oh you guys are a
nuisance like man I hope yeah I hope
it's not too forthright to tell like I
think I could wrap my mind around why he
would think that yeah so then how does
it how does another what do I say to a
person who thinks like that today well
I've got nothing to say in and of myself
except jesus loves you and Holy Spirit
we pray even right now to all who are
listening and to those to who you're
thinking about that you're praying for
Holy Spirit like you reached Saul of
Tarsus we pray that you would come
and reach every one of our friends and
loved ones our family
what Holy Spirit God encounter each one
of them because without you doing it
Lord we'd all be lost
Oh God we pray you would do that and
when we pray we are praying the very
heartbeat of God who desires that none
perish but that all would come to a
saving knowledge of the risen Lord Jesus
Christ oh how awesome is that and what a
difference he made in the life of Saul
yeah what any man in the biggest way
right knocked off his horse and the
first words out of his mouth Lord Lord
yeah Lord he knew who was their Lord hey
why you persecuting me Lord Lord
he didn't wonder he knew to whom he was
speaking and he was changed in an
instant yeah lying did for days yes and
but when you say change for an instant I
mean it's true even at the core of his
heart because it wasn't long after that
like after he got his vision back after
a couple of days
he was then heading into the towns where
he was heading to kill the Christians
and they're going I don't know if we can
trust you yeah you've done a 180 was
this not the guy who was gonna kill ya
run for your life run for your life yeah
and I mean so but that's not why he was
there no it wasn't he was there to say
guys I get it I understand I totally get
it now and I can't help but see is there
relation to you and that have you
recently come to Christ and your friends
are going what is up with you you're not
the person we knew before and you're
just kind of going now that's like it
yeah it's I'm changed I'm a different
person because of Christ in my life and
that is the whole essence of what Easter
is about is that change where we don't
have to go back to the old we are the
new and so be that light be the truth
for your friends who may not know Christ
who maybe did and have walked away like
was mentioned at the beginning of this
and in leading yes that's a good word
you may be the encouragement do you know
statistically in nor
America Easter Sunday coming up in just
well this weekend this weekend is if you
invite your friends it's likely that
they'll say yes that's interesting you
take the same as Christmas as well like
yeah Easter and Christmas are the two
highlighted times were people who
normally don't go to church will go at
the undos two Sundays and often they
will hear the gospel especially at those
times just like me in fact it was at
Christmas time for me when I was
presented with the opportunity would you
like Jesus Christ Lawrence to take away
all your sin and I went I went and I did
and I said yes and I I said lord please
come and forgive me of my sin and he did
he did it was December 18 1977 in this
Easter season
why don't we all invite a friend and
they too might hear the question would
you like to have your sins forgiven they
just might say yes Jesus please forgive
me and I tell you even as I asked Jesus
and he forgave me as you asked Jesus and
he forgave you then others who asked
Jesus he too will forgive them maybe
it's you right now and you're saying
lord I don't know what it is but right
now you're doing something in me say why
don't you just simply say Lord would you
forgive me
right where you are and I Jeff and I
tell you on the authority of God's Word
if you ask him to forgive you and you
believe that he can I tell you that we
promise you he will and he'll make you
as white as snow mm-hmm not awesome
that's very awesome and you know
interesting tidbit of information 3432
years ago this weekend I got saved how
is an Easter weekend oh I was for new
life for that we're thankful
all right well fun way to
and this week but it is the Easter
weekend so enjoy your time if you're
spending with family and just remember
that it truly is about remember you
Christ's sacrifice on the cross and so
if you've just just turned your life
over to Christ maybe because of the show
or maybe just because of the weekend let
us know absolutely we want to hear from
you and we want to celebrate with you
alright have a great great week Happy
Easter
catch a new episode of new every day
every Friday morning at new every date
on TV we're also on roku cody
what youtube google play music podcasts
and facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 on KB VB TV channel 33
television for the high desert
