Canadian folklore and ghost stories as
retold by author Becca Ferguson narrated
by Robbie Ferguson this is the Red River
oxcart ghost of Manitoba
[Music]
ghost seen at the fort
nightly vigils of the sentries made
hideous by an apparition was the title
of a newspaper article in the August
29th 1903 issue of the morning telegram
in the nineteenth century
the Red River Trails in Winnipeg
Manitoba were a trade route of oxcart
roads that connected the Red River
Colony and Fort Garry in British North
America all the way to the Mississippi
River in the United States in those days
the area was inhabited by Scottish
settlers and the matey
who at the time were disparagingly
referred to as half-breeds due to their
French and First Nations heritage the
land was not shared mutually between the
two groups and thus regarding the
haunting at Fort Garry the newspaper
speculated that the first owners of the
Red River Valley were resenting the
intrusion of the Northwest Mounted
Rifles upon the grounds sacred to their
dead and making their displeasure
severely felt one ominous summer evening
in the wee hours of the night a lone
soldier standing guard outside the lower
four carri saw something dark and
looming approaching in the mist next
came the rhythmic clip clopping of
hooves an ox car appeared from the gloom
driven by a matey man and
woman though puzzled by the outdated
look of the lot the soldier shrugged it
off and said nothing as the cart slowly
lumbered by a few minutes later however
another dark form appeared in the
distant mist and what seemed to be the
very same ox cart traveled by again the
third time it appeared the soldier began
to tremble palms damp and sweat on his
brow he ordered the cart to halt but no
sooner had his authoritative words wrung
out when the entire apparition vanished
like smoke in the wind seconds later it
reappeared in the distance and
disappeared again when he hysterically
cried out for it to stop by now he was
in a full-blown panic and threw his
rifle to the ground running away back at
the fort his fellow soldiers laughed off
his story but the next night another
soldier on duty had the same experience
one by one it happened to them all until
there was no left who could mock
this has been the Red River oxcart ghost
of Manitoba part of Becca Ferguson's
Canadian folklore and ghost stories
series catch the complete and
ever-growing series on Wattpad or
directly on the author's website Becca
Ferguson comm like comment and be sure
to subscribe so you don't miss the next
tale
