here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom an
Airbus a350 software bug forces the
airlines to turn planes off and on again
every 4 149 hours virgins Hyperloop one
company has signed a deal with the
government of Saudi Arabia to build a
test track for its futuristic transport
concept yet another crowdfunded game has
become an exclusive to the epic game
store MechWarrior 5 mercenaries release
has been delayed to December and won't
be on Steam as its backers expected and
you can run Android on Nintendo switch
and it runs entirely from your SD card
that's right the built-in OS remains
intact and you can jump back and forth
between os's by simply rebooting these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
dot TV newsroom covering the week's top
tech stories with a slight linux bias
i'm sasha Rickman and here the top
stories for following this week an
airbus a350 software bug forces the
every 149 hours some models of the
airliners still need to be hard rebooted
after exactly 149 hours despite warnings
from the EU Aviation Safety Agency or
ESA first issued two years ago in a
mandatory air were the air worthiness
directive reissued just over a week ago
eásá urged operators to turn their a350s
off and on again to prevent quote
partial or total loss of some avionics
systems or functions and both the
revised directive effective from July 26
exempts only those new a3 59:40 ones
which have been had which had been
modified had modified software preloaded
on the production line for all other
a350 not 9:40 once operators still need
to completely power the airliner down
before it reaches 149 hours of
continuous power on time concerning Lee
the original directive was brought in
brought about in 2017 by quote
in-service event where a loss of
communication occurred between some
avionics systems and avionics and
networks and quote the impact of the
failures arranged from redundancy loss
to quote complete loss on a specific
function hosted on common remotes data
concentrator and core processing
input/output modules and quote in lay
terms this means at that prior to 2017
at least some a350s flying passengers
were suffering unexplained failures of
potentially flight critical digital
systems it is common for airliners to be
left powered on while parked at airport
gates so maintainer x' can carry out
routine system checks between flights
especially if the aircraft is plugged
into ground power the remedy for the
a350 941 problem is straightforward
install airbus software updates for a
permanent cure or switch the aeroplane
off and on again affected airlines are
Air France
American Airlines Delta Air Lines and
Lufthansa as well as air chat air China
and Taiwan's China Airlines hmm hmm Wow
so they don't actually say what the
critical failures may be wait Henry what
kind of failures could you have that
would lead to Boeing's not alone anymore
I'm just kidding no um no it's if it was
more critical there would be more
Porsche about it like we saw with the
737 max yeah be like the toilet doesn't
flush or something yeah no problem yeah
again it's when you're talking about
that kind of stuff I'm guessing that
it's pulley non-critical systems so like
if it's just like because there are
things days your digital nowadays yeah
right especially with Airbus planes
because Airbus believes the philosophy
of the plane knows how to fly well as
Boeing thinks that the pilot knows how
to fly so in a Boeing plane you can
normally stall the plane as a pilot but
an Airbus plan you can't because it's
all electronic right like they entrust
the plane war so to hear that they have
like such a technical issue on an Airbus
plane is kind of concerning right
because it's just it
more electronically controlled than a
standard moon plane right but again
everything's fly-by-wire nowadays
everything's electronically controlled
so hopefully it's nothing too critical
yeah like controls or anything but well
the the other question is how easy is it
to turn a plane off and on like is it
something you could conceivably just do
preemptively before any flight yeah it's
it's not hard to do but as we saw with
today's earlier story it does take time
for instruments to know where they are
you have to put in your like exact
coordinates again you have to do all
that stuff so in an industry where time
is money yeah it adds time right so why
not just you keep certain systems on if
it's a quick turnaround then go hmm but
yeah so don't be silly update your
planes
yeah because I'm thinking like you're
you're talking delayed flights exactly
you're sitting on a tarmac having to
reboot the computer and go through all
the pre-flight checks and everything
else right but there are times when the
plate plane doesn't like seem to be
doing anything now I know that it is but
it doesn't seem to be like when it's
getting the ice through the winter it's
sitting on the tarmac and it's just
being sprayed could you then power it
off and power back on and that man I
don't know like this the systems that
they're talking about sounds like their
flight critical systems so going on my
point from before again like the CEO
like the gyros and stuff at each gate
they have the assign like geo exact
coordinate so like your inertial units
can't turn those off because then you'd
have to go back and like read it and put
the numbers so like if you're in like an
iced in airport where you're like
sitting down there for like two or three
hours they wouldn't be able to turn it
off right so that's that's time on the
hour
now Henry I've only ever flown a drone
how do they take an Airbus and flip it
over
and turn oh I guess just update like the
software just update your software yeah
is there any cost like do they like it
stop them from updating the sideways
point it's almost like updating your
iPad or like they running Windows
the main issue is that in aviation
everything's so scrutinized right Celaya
in the for example they have to be
improved in the FAA in the states like
every single update right so um and
Europe's really hard about that as well
as same here in Canada like they have to
prove each and every update by the
government whoever starting the
authority right so I did notice that
Canadian Airlines words on the list of
the affected Airlines does that mean we
just don't have these planes yeah we
just don't have those models oh right so
like um yeah for example WestJet only
has smaller planes right so yeah yeah
we're we're safe guys I just wondered
maybe we weren't affected because we did
the update but no we just don't have
virgins Hyperloop one company has signed
a deal with the government of Saudi
Arabia
to build a test track for its futuristic
transport concept the Hyperloop concept
involves a pressurized pod with a
vehicle carrying passengers or cargo up
to ten times faster than current rail a
35 kilometer track will be built
alongside a research and development
facility and manufacturing plant north
of Jeddah some remain skeptical that
Hyperloop travel can become a reality
virgin Hyperloop one said the technology
could reduce a journey from rider to
Jetta to 76 minutes compared with more
than 10 hours currently Wow the company
showed off a pod traveling at over 100
kilometers an hour or a 62 miles per
hour in a 500 meter vacuum tube in
Nevada in July 2017 meanwhile Elon Musk
has been running an annual competition
at his SpaceX headquarters to test the
limits of the technology this year's
contest was won by an engineering team
from a Technical University of Munich
afterwards mr. musk tweeted the 2020
event would be run in a new 10 kilometre
curved vacuum tunnel Oh exciting yeah I
think it's going to happen I know that
there are people who are skeptical I
feel like fast travel is it's gonna be
hot right like because there are so many
cities
densely populated cities and people want
to get from one to the other there's
gonna be so much time and attention put
into this but it will be a thing that'll
happen in our lifetime like by 2012 as
we've seen in the past though I think it
just comes down to with the speed if
something is going to go wrong it's
going to go catastrophic ly wrong right
and I think that's the danger or the
hesitation in a lot of cases because
it's not a small thing it's like an
airplane like it's like it's devastating
if an airplane goes down I don't
devastating if one of these things
crashes right but there is no mode of
transportation that we do that doesn't
have some level
walking in the winter like you there is
no mode of transportation that can't
potentially hurt you
right so Hyperloop yes because of the
speed could kill you faster it's not a
dark spell is riskless and we all drive
those so we might as well cut down the
time to travel from one place to another
I know that there are risks but they'll
be so scared of the bad press of having
an injury that they're gonna prevent
that as as much as they can
yeah I think I think we're gonna be
surprised Robby because there's this
huge push of like green transportation
and that's true too you know I know I'm
a hypocrite cuz I'm a I'm like oh I'll
save the environment meanwhile I'm
flying airplanes at but at the same time
it's just like yeah it's dangerous but
they might start off with like cargo
first and just say hey yeah
let's use it for mail or just-in-time
shipping and then they can expand to
passengers from there but yeah it's like
a green way to send people from Montreal
to Toronto or New York New York to in an
unbelievably short amount of time really
good point with the cargo okay so there
are places what are they called like are
they called urban deserts where there's
no food in that particular like no fresh
food in that part of the city
imagine if they were just if they had
hyper loops that could just like truck
and Masum out so and then by truck I
mean Hyperloop pod a potted hot in like
fresh produce and and it would happen so
quickly and efficiently that wouldn't
cost anything to feed these urban
centers that really rely on nothing but
frozen food because space is an issue as
well right but the thing is that there
it's expensive because like they're
digging the tunnels underground but it
also saves space above ground right so
you don't have to build another highway
you can actually put stuff you need
there instead of a roadway hmm so that
can also save space too I like that what
do you guys think I'm eager to see what
what comes of it yeah yet another
crowdfunded game has become an exclusive
to epic game store MechWarrior 5
mercenaries release has been delayed to
december and it won't be on Steam as
backers had expected it's becoming a
familiar story as what was a crowdfunded
game expected to be available everywhere
has become an epic game store exclusive
for the next 12 months that means it
won't be available on Steam despite many
who have already pre-ordered it doing so
with the assumption that it would be
it's hardly the first time that that's
happened though as epic continues to
sign up as many games as possible to
keep them off steam as frustrating as it
is the anger with which PC gamers have
treated the trend has been extreme even
by gamer standards but epic shows no
sign of backing down and maintains it's
the best way to establish their online
store on their blog developer piranha
games has said that they'll refund
anyone that isn't happy about the news
as long as they get in contact by
September 1st the other big news story
for the game though is that it's been
delayed from its original release date
of September 10th to December 10th of
this year that said a closed beta is now
planned for November and anyone anyone
that's pre-ordered it will get automatic
access to several of the final games
practice missions
that's interesting almost feels like
they're giving it more time like okay
epic has bought it and now they're gonna
put it through its paces before it's
released to make sure that it's up to
epic standards can you say how many
people do you think are gonna be so
upset about this news they'll ask for a
refund right unless you want to opt into
your early access but your early access
is still later than the original release
date yeah what did this take away from
the funding of a like of developing it
beyond from September through December
when they see how many people want a
refund yeah if it was a mask you funding
is so tell there won't be a mask gamer
movement there will be but the big thing
with epic right now is that they have
the money to support it and the main
issue with epic versus steam is that
epic is letting the game developers get
more money out of it right so let's say
if steam charges 10% commission but when
they sell a game epic would only slight
charge 5% right so there's an
inclination of yeah we should go to epic
but again epic doesn't have all the same
good features everything else that steam
does so a lot of gamers are angry
because epic is stealing cool unquote
stealing again both says argument their
games because there's a lot of
Kickstarter games there's a lot of these
games like I think Phoenix Point Shenmue
all these other games that we're gonna
be on Steam we're marketed as being on
Steam but now epic has paid them out pay
them out and now they're only gonna be
epic exclusive or epic exclusive for X
amount of time right so it's really
sucky for the players right um if it
matters if you like steam or not but it
just both steam and epic you can but
there's a as there's been a lot of
controversy about epic fell like there's
been a lot of in the sense that a it
doesn't have a lot of basic features so
like when you log into steam obviously
have a games but there's like a lot of
social market community things but with
epic game launcher there's been some
like security issue
Jews again don't quote me on this you
can google it yourself but um there's
been like a lot of controversy about
that right because with epic store they
don't have a lot of infrastructure with
that that being said it's still a new
idea right it's still a new store which
is great for the consumer you think
because more competition better pricing
right but the issue is that steam isn't
doing another thing to counteract this
right if steam wants to win all they
have to do is lure the Commission cost
of selling a game to like 5% oh right
and the owners of epic has have actually
said look if you lower your costs we'll
stop stealing games if you believe them
or not that's your choice right but it's
it's literally come down to that so it's
just it's mixed feelings right now
throughout the community I'm fairly new
to steam I only ended up getting steam
when I got my VR butthead tech yeah so
that's when I was introduced to steam
but I don't know about epoch at all I
don't know I don't know a lot about the
politics between the two I didn't I just
expected well if you want to play a game
it's fine just play a game right and
like nothing says you can't enjoy epic
like it has plenty of positives but
again as I move abayas Linux steam etc I
first see myself but again if that
doesn't matter to you if you still want
to play your awesome game on a different
platform power to you do that right but
whose epic friend Wes like uh epic is
run by epic and why because like there's
a what is it there's unity and then
there's uh what's the other game Unreal
Engine yeah epic owns Unreal Engine oh
so like it's the same company so it's
like the same launcher so it's just like
I dabbled in like Unreal Engine for a
bit it's like the same launcher so it's
just like you have your game creation
engine and then you have like your epic
game store and then you have all these
other things but it's just that they're
swimming in the fort night money right
now
not sure yes yeah and part of that is we
don't want to give away our Commission
that's the thing right yes so steam
steam isn't doing anything but they
don't really have to do anything right
now because there's a lot of there they
still have a large user base that say we
like our market we like our everything
right so brand loyal brand loyalty
comment below if it affects you or how
you feel about it personally I'm I'm in
different stores a store
yeah install either or or both or well
yeah they say it the thing I would say
about it is I am on Steam and I wouldn't
I wouldn't have thought to go elsewhere
at all I didn't know yeah but if another
game says you need epic then game stores
right all right hey we do it anyways
right you have origins steam good ol
games twitch well you just have more
software on your computer that's all
there you go yeah speaking of games you
can run Android on Nintendo switch and
it runs entirely from your SD card
between OSS by simply rebooting the
Nintendo switch isn't a device that we
would usually associate with Android
development however thanks to the hard
work by XD a senior member Langer Haynes
and XD a junior member bylaws any
hackable Nintendo switched typically
devices sold before July 2018 can now
we'll boot a lineage OS 15.1 directly
from the SD card lineage OS 15.1 on the
nintendo switch has basically everything
you've come to expect from lineage OS
you get all of your basic Android
features support for Google services and
even support for native Nvidia shield
applications that means you can play
half-life and portal on-the-go and even
make use of GeForce now if you're part
of the beta the joy cons and Nintendo
pro controller work without a hitch
keyboard and mouse works when docked
pretty much anything that can work will
work it's a spectacular port of Android
and one that's well worth setting up if
you have a spare SD card installing
Android on your Nintendo switch does not
touch the main OS installed on it so you
don't need to worry about breaking
anything if you want to get started
check out the switch root lineage OS
15.1 thread we've hotlinked at cat5
dot TV slash switch switch android
switch Android I cut off a little bit on
the teleprompter but I knew it because I
wrote it that is too cool absolutely
awesome I mean you feel kind of limited
by what the switch provides but it's
fantastic I mean the kids love it and it
does everything they need it to do but
to be able to take it and turn it into a
tablet at the same time now all of a
sudden a take your tablet with you take
your switch with you it's just all one
device that's great perfect I love that
you could just do it with the SD card
you don't have to do anything to the
built-in storage
yeah there's no risk at all anything you
can do it oh there's always risk we'll
find a way to break it but yeah that's
cool very good stuff big thanks to Roy W
Nash in our community of yours for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight linux biased and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie
Ferguson and I'm Mary Bailey bro
[Music]
