welcome to the show this week we are
looking at well what's inside this box
it is a HD video capture device that
allows you to capture your gameplay from
hdmi or component video but in
particular hdmi input that allows you to
capture to a USB flash drive no need for
a computer to capture your 2d your
gameplay whoa I don't have to plug into
my computer nope nope nope you just plug
in a USB flash drive push record and
you're rolling that's it I'm looking at
this for things like screencast gameplay
all that kind of stuff we're gonna show
you what's inside this box in just a
couple of minutes time and it's a great
deal it's a fantastic product as well
we've also got a way for you to be able
to eliminate those pests that are gonna
be growing and flying around your house
and buzzing around your ears and
everything else we're gonna show you how
to get rid of those without any
chemicals stick around our live
recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times through that category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash IIIB welcome to the show
everybody this is episode number 621
it's great to have you here great to
have you two back for a second week yes
like the crew back we miss Jeff but it's
nice to have you back as well this is
like the Henry time just disappears
Henry's back last week I gotta give you
kudos man getting loads of comments
about it's the newsroom and your feature
about taking us to space you know
good lots of kudos though coming in
saying hey Henry was on his game so well
done sir
and we're looking forward to another
great show this week yes what do you
guys been up to
you know if our week has passed well
I've been career searching so yes that's
going really well good updates to come
but sasha has some really important news
oh yeah speaking of careers I finally
finished school yes she graduated grade
eight folks so now I am officially a
personal support worker PSW which is all
sounds fantastic
it's a health care aid in some places or
a personal care attendant in other
places so it's been a crazy year because
even though I've been here like almost
every single week while I am here I'm
thinking about homework right yeah it's
like right I look over and I thought she
was reading like pre reading the news
and it's like she's google docking some
kind of presentation for the following
morning you pulled it off you've pulled
it off but you have missed a couple of
weeks recently yes because of like 30
final placement right the final
placement which was in a facility which
was absolutely amazing I got to really
get a taste of what that aspect of the
job is like anything is PSW work can be
in the community or the facility or a
hospital and they're all very three
different flavors of care that you would
give really sure so we're talking like
the difference between like somebody who
is pretty much self-sufficient at home
yeah you're going in and helping them
till like maintain their independence at
home she will be somebody who is blind
or has you know mobility issues or
something and you're going to visit them
and help them in a facility of course
many people are aware I mean you move to
a facility when you're no longer able to
live independently and personal support
workers there take care of your needs on
a more extensive basis and then in the
hospital it's in a more acute situation
so I have been doing 220 hours he just
finished 220 hours in a facility
it has been quite the journey this is
the first time I've not worn scrubs in a
while well it's actually it's nice to
know that you've pursued a career in
technology you know we've been working
towards so so much over the past five
years I'll tell you okay so usually I'm
here week by week surrounded by people
who know more than me when it comes to
computers I have found an industry where
I am the computer genius but you did
take you did take an ePaper tablet with
you last last week yes I did how did
that work it worked out so well yeah
because you can use it to jot notes
I mean you chart outside of the person's
room obviously so that you're not right
right right so you want to take notes so
that you're charting appropriately
you're not relying on your memory and
then you don't have paper that you need
to shred and waste afterwards that's
good - yeah it was yeah it was the time
and speaking of technology that you have
taken to try yeah the I'm thinking about
the dash cam yes so this is the we
decided like it's either padding lack or
having tech one of the - yeah yeah I
like the sound of having tech habit I
think it's I think I think Henry decided
as having like they're gonna be paving
yeah clock will figure it out but look
at 1080p dash cam and it's awesome yeah
okay here's the thing it's awesome but
I'm pretty sure that it record well I
know it record sound I'm pretty sure
that I can never watch any of the videos
ever because I it turns out that I'm a
really bad in-car singer all the time
there it is watching me so we need to
get these videos this needs to be our
promo for the show
Jani Landon wants to know how it's
handled the heat now the the week
following the the installation video
when we we actually you installed it in
your car right we had temperatures we
had a few days that hit about a hundred
and eight degrees Fahrenheit yes like it
was scorching hot did you have any
trouble like that's what Johnny wants to
know because he's had some that he's
mounted and it's hit a hundred degrees
and the thing is melted okay so here's
the thing
I did think to myself self it's hot out
you should probably take this thing and
put it somewhere cooler did I do that
it works just fine so I'm not saying
that you should leave here is it
deformed is it dripping plastic seems to
be in perfect working order it still
turns on when I turn the car on it it
seems to work whilst else
that's about as hot as it's gonna get up
here in Barrie Ontario like we get up to
about 110 Fahrenheit I would say would
at the very max and it was hot enough
for that to run through my head like a
fleeting moment I'm like I should
protect this camera didn't happen yeah
it's good good very good now have you
tried the parking mode you mentioned
that that seemed like something that you
would like to try did you get a chance
to give that a go so yes I turned on the
parking mode yeah but I haven't checked
this but you didn't do anything with it
like you didn't dance in the front of
the car I really should look at those
videos to see whether or not it's
clicking on yeah okay that'll be my next
update is to actually take that chip
what I need to go because it records
really hurt if she
recently I need to silently drive for a
few hours not singing so they can record
my normal responsible self-driving and
then I can check those yeah that's
that's cool okay so what are we talking
about we're talking about a $30.00
dashcam yeah okay now we've seen the
price come down from $200 two years ago
and boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boom now
for $30 you can get this popping like a
dashcam 1080p it looks fantastic it
works really really well hasn't fallen
off your dash or melted in the Sun or
anything like that
it's really great for 30 bucks yeah here
let me just tell you one random really
weird thing is when I was installing it
in the car I was like why is this wire
so long
oh I wrapped it up around our windshield
check them out cat five dot TV / - cam
it's that simple just to find out you
know what it is that we're talking about
and see if you want to pick up something
like that for yourself I mean having a
dashcam is a great idea if you ever do
get in an accident or even somebody like
if you're in parking mode somebody backs
into you like you're parallel parked and
someone backs into you trying to get out
yeah well what are you gonna do you're
gonna look and you're gonna see the
scratches and be like who did that and
they're long gone yeah it has happened
to me and it's like well you know we
can't prove who did it right so now with
this it's like that there's their
license plate number you can see the
person behind the wheel yeah that's all
you need you know what does work on that
very well well while I was adjusting it
I accidentally dropped it just a little
bit in my car like broken yeah yeah but
a little memo thing came up and there's
like a little file that's like me no you
know how it saves it does like the G
sensor or whatever oh yeah oh it thought
you got in an accident
like oh nice permanently saved file on
my card do you like that yes if you get
in a collision that's that that g-sensor
sharp yeah and it locks down the file so
that it doesn't record over it yeah and
then that way it's like it's there so I
locked in I many times eventually gonna
fill the card will lock the video I'm
just you going it's locked on the card
you can't delete it it's there forever
that's the one we're gonna use for the
promo I love it though I've had a heck
of a week you know what I've been
dealing with is I've got a customer
alright now I work in cyber security
mm-hmm Wow and they've been hit with
ransomware and and you say well how can
that how can that happen Robbie how can
one of your customers get hit by
ransomware there's no way you would let
that happen right right yeah you would
think that's absolutely and and it
happens because like not everybody does
the things that you recommend and not
everybody does you know like III in
category 5 we've have said to you the
viewers so many times like here are
here's here are the things that we
recommend like and just a you know quick
recap over ten years worth of what we've
been telling you is like back up your
stuff and have a backup of the backup if
you have one copy of your files that's
not a backup if you put in a USB flash
drive and move all your files to it it's
not a backup what happens if that drive
fails same thing with your phone think
about all the pictures and videos of you
and your family on your phone and what
happens if your phone gets stolen just
that's the data and because the real the
only real protection that you have
pardon me against ransomware and I'm
saying against ransomware because
ransomware is gonna happen anyways the
only way you can thwart it is to have
good backups it's to be able to say ah
darn it my files is be they be encrypted
and we got to recover from our backup
right so there's like a couple hours of
copying files over you know yeah it's
gonna if it's gonna happen you want to
be ready for it and have those files
backed up and backed up off the back top
right and what I mean by that is well if
your backup is plugged into the the unit
that gets encrypted by ransomware wool
your backup even if it's redundant is
also now encrypted yeah so you need like
something that you like
remove physical yeah and something that
you rotate and something that you yeah
absolutely and even if it's not a
physical thing there are lots of great
cloud services out there that you can
backup to and I'm not saying one Drive
or Dropbox our backup solutions they are
not because they - if you mount them to
your drive to your computer and your
computer gets hit with ransomware guess
what it goes out on to your onedrive and
encrypts your onedrive actually with
Dropbox you can reverse it now yeah of
the files yes Leslie they're starting to
catch on to that yeah like even if you
do have a read happen so let's be ready
yeah you can reverse back but still like
you don't know how to have to rely on a
system like and that and I'll be honest
with you Henry so if you're relying on
something like that to be your backup so
think about the Dropbox as the example
and and other companies are cluing in
and saying hey let's have file
versioning hmm let's say you've got 500
gigs worth of files yes
okay and they've all been encrypted yep
and you don't have a local copy or
access to a local company who has your
cloud backup that you can go grab a copy
from them well now you're gonna have to
what are you gonna do like revert 500
gigs worth of files and wait for that
and then resync them down and let's do
it I have a lot of let's do let's get
started because we're gonna be out of
business for the rest of the month yeah
I mean so you know there are so many
different things that we've read or it
reiterated on the show and that's the
first is backup backup backup
you've got to have good security as far
as the software that you have on your
computer goes and that's why I support
ESET and I say
like have proper business anti-malware
on your system but here's a key thing
about ransomware that you don't
necessarily think of if you're not
familiar with how it works is 9 times
out of 10 how does ransomware get in but
through a person right okay do you have
remote desktop enabled that's point
number two if you do turn it off don't
ever use remote desktop if you need to
have remote access install something
sign up for a service you're probably
gonna have to pay for it pay for it it's
worth it extra layer yet a service that
has two-factor authentication
you know what Google remote desktop has
two-factor authentication
it's free so you have no excuse to have
Remote Desktop turned on any longer
well if remote desktop is open and
turned on and they can remote and you
can remote in from home well guess what
so can the hacker right right they're
gonna brute-force that thing out the
wazoo and chances are pretty good you
don't have a super strong password and
guess what at 2:30 in the morning you
probably don't know that they broke that
password and got into your system right
so what is so this brings us to point
number three now I said you got to have
good anti-malware protection yes they've
remoted in through remote desktop what's
the first thing this malware distributor
who wants to make money from you is
going to do any guesses
turn off your malware yes bang on your
anti-malware so if you've got antivirus
is the old term so anti-malware you've
got ESET running in the taskbar guess
what
right click turn off exit are you sure
you want to turn it off yes so then it
comes down to having like centralized
management for that anti-malware with a
policy that says the user cannot turn
off the antivirus the anti-malware they
can't disable the firewall the rules are
in place and they are set by the
administrator and the user can't turn it
off nuts that can be an inconvenience if
the IT guy is away and your accounting
software is being blocked by the
firewall but hey work it out people it's
a lot more important to know that if
somebody ever broke in
that they cannot turn off the
anti-malware which they need to do first
in order to install their ransomware
mm-hmm yes don't make sense to me yeah I
mean so these are just some really quick
points yeah and I just say them because
you know this is what hi this is what
I'm dealing with right now and it's it's
just amazing so keeps you busy when this
happens to you at work you just send
them links to the show here's something
I'm also a famous youtuber you should
probably watch my show yeah there have
been times when people have said are you
that Robbie Ferguson okay then I'm like
yeah that's me here's a couple links and
that has happened but rarely enough that
I can still you know I'm still enjoy my
private life yeah yeah superstar so hey
be smart and Ameri droid is saying like
here's an article on a marriage riod
they call it the Ameri blog and they're
working on mara droid is working on some
SBC solutions to like hey let's when
when beau was here he talked about hey
let's have two hard drives one of them's
your backup the other one is a backup of
the backup and that backup is not
accessible over samba pretty Angela
lastik perfect then we can start looking
at redundancy solutions as well like
let's have a let's throw a raid one in
the mix and have some backup
that is also redundant so if a hard
drive fails then you also have your
tendency there knock on wood yeah yeah
hey if you are not sure if you're safe
against things like ransomware
I want you to email the show I don't
know what that noise was it's all the
questions coming yes is the spirit of
the awesomeness email the show live at
category-five dot TV and I want to hear
from you and I want to help you not not
even professionally just as a friend and
as a like just to get you started just
sharing stories right like the situation
in the first place right we got to
understand ransomware as a whole new can
of worms even though it's been around
for a few years people still don't
understand
and I say this generally but people
don't understand how it works and don't
realize that your antivirus is not gonna
stop ransomware that's not how
ransomware works it's not a virus yeah
it's like a different oh group right
like bread isn't fruit right so I have
no idea what he's talking about I'm
talking about security I'm talking about
fruit you got a problem email live at
category 5 dot TV if you've got some
questions so that hey that's what my
week has consisted of Henry what are you
been up to man I'm I'm becoming all
grown up and you said give me a career
yeah I'm really excited for that I can't
say with whom or where uh-huh what okay
yet all right top secret classified it's
gonna be awesome but no hopefully still
be here and bury so yeah yeah no it's
been really exciting I'll keep y'all
updated but nice some exciting things
are happening and yeah still flying
getting my crush good good you know
every time I don't know if we're if the
the flight like lanes are just above the
studio but every time just after the
show is done and everybody is left
there's a plane that flies well that's
cool we've got some really cool devices
to look at tonight now first of all
we've got a capture device that's gonna
help you to be able to do your
screencasts or even gameplay videos but
there is one catch you don't have to
have a computer to capture the video
well that's a big catch because that's
gonna save you a ton of money yes and it
makes it a lot more portable it makes it
a lot more easy for you and we're gonna
be taking a look at that right after
this short break stick around
[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV now before the break I
just made a quick mention about the
capability to be able to capture video
without the need of a computer yeah tell
us this magical Oh are you guys ready
for this yes back on episode number 497
Jeff and I actually showed a device that
captures 1080p video from HDMI or RCA
component connections yeah but it's
unique in that it captures - not a
computer so it's not like a traditional
computer capture device that requires a
pretty high-end computer in a lot of
hard drive space instead you simply plug
in your USB flash drive or your USB
external hard drive and push record it
could it be that simple like remember
the days of the cassette tape you could
just tune in the radio station and push
record and then it was recording it's
that it's that could it be that simple
yeah here we are a couple years later
and it's like okay well how have things
progressed yeah and that's where the AGP
tech HD video capture device which is
actually linked at camp five dot TV
slash AGP Tech and I say that not as an
advertisement but I want you to be able
to get to the same one so that you know
what one we're looking at there are
several different ones now the one that
I'm linking to has the component option
as well
so it captures HDMI or component that's
but there is one step down as well so if
you look it and you're wondering well
why is this one ten dollars cheaper
well the other one only has HDMI I
figure for ten dollars I'm going to add
the component addition so I can plug in
my retro gaming systems as well and Lee
what's cool about it is that it then
takes that RCA input from say an old VCR
that you're dubbing
VHS tape or you know whatever an old say
a Nintendo Wii all right which doesn't
have HDMI connectivity and so you plug
it into there and it actually then the
HDMI output goes to the HDMI IN on your
TV
it adds HDMI capability to your Wii
that's all and so on and so forth
so let's get into the box before I get
talking too much about it let's see how
this thing looks never been open folks
okay it's good box yeah nice nice box
right there oh when it says on the side
what does it say Henry you read it it
says please do not record copyrighted
material since you said it nicely please
we won't we won't do that
okay stand alone captured a USB disk no
PC required one key capture easy-to-use
1080p HD video capture 30 frames per
second with editing software and you can
share it on YouTube now I don't really
care about the editing software I'm just
gonna it records to mp4 files so hey
it's gonna work with any suite all right
there you go guys
look at that alright let's push open the
bag it's so small it's so powerful
alright what do we have we've got a USB
host which is where we're actually going
to plug in our USB flash drive and
that's what we're gonna record - just
like that done we've got a line input a
mic input a line output and a record
button would it be as simple as that I
gosh okay well what else do we have
look at this a GP tech HD video capture
and on the back here we go we've got
HDMI input HDMI output ypbpr in and DC
in and now so this I imagine they've got
a breakaway cable let's let's go further
in the box before I talk too much about
it and see what what else we have
we've got quick instructions here we've
got the very first thing here's their
vendor email if you have any questions
or trouble click here send an email and
it gives you some information about it
mm-hmm back in the box
there's a box in the box a box within
the box oh it's so cool it's a mini DVD
what what is this madness oh my goodness
baby yeah all right we've got an HD
video capture manual I'm actually
curious about the line input well I
wonder could you can you use external
hard drives with us - yeah okay it's
gotta be I would use an SSD yeah total
because it's got to be able to be
powered by the USB port and I doubt it's
gonna be providing four amps of power
you don't want to pick 3.5 inch spinning
right or a yeah powered off of your USB
port if it's got separate like a power
brick for the hard drive then that's
fine but if not I would stick with SSD
all right it says it has two input modes
HDMI component hmm it'll automatically
recognize which one you're using
no needs no need to switch it manually
just please do not connect both sources
at the same time it's about to say that
yeah that's all so just keep that in
mind all right do we have any
information everything else is pretty
straightforward but what I'm not clear
on is the line input now it's shown in a
diagram where the input output is like
just yeah just like you would expect
connecting it into your sound system or
anything like that so I don't know if
you're gonna need that hey whatever but
I do like that it has a microphone input
so in fact what I've done is I picked up
for six bucks a headset microphone that
has so professional yeah the three if so
pro at six bucks just to demonstrate hey
this can be done really really cheaply
and why would I want a six dollar
microphone that has a 3.5 millimeter
plug which is now gonna go into here so
think about this so if I'm doing gaming
or if I want to do screencasts for
example now as I'm doing it and
recording to my USB flash drive I can be
talking into this microphone and it's
going to be presumably picking up and
recording and I look you look like this
now everybody by
now music do you think that's what it is
kind of reminded me more of like the
chop-chop guy whatever yeah yeah okay so
we do have came with a short hdmi cable
that's great it has there's the
breakaway cable so we've got our CA so
we've got left and right audio and
component so we'd have to play around
see which one is going to give us V like
yellow but it is component so that would
work with like some of the some of the
early day high-end like did the
PlayStation not have component I think
it did I believe so don't think so no
not the first one but maybe the second I
stationed you yeah before HDMI yeah I
think they did offer it but that's yeah
that's for kind of retro compatibility
another story this is retro
compatibility so this was an extra 10
bucks to have this capability and it
gives you RCA inputs for audio and video
okay I'm pretty much just gonna use the
HDMI IN and the HDMI out and as I say
you can put this in between so right now
you've got your your is a PlayStation 4
for ya yeah so you've got HDMI coming
out of that into your TV well instead
plug it into here right and then plug
this into the TV and you can press
record at any time and be recording your
gameplay on to your USB flash drive
while still watching it on the TV that
is awful so it allows the pass-through
now looking at the device that we looked
at back on episode number 497 one of the
things I really didn't like about it but
I didn't realize at the time I used it
for a while yeah and one thing that I
didn't realize was that hey the power
input was proprietary early sometimes
that doesn't bother me but when I lost
the cable Oh
and couldn't find it anywhere ooh and I
mean anywhere like I couldn't find it
probably got thrown away dissipate like
maybe in a box of wires or something but
I couldn't find it like I couldn't buy
it you can't get on Amazon and find that
part and buy it so one thing I do
appreciate here is that this is not a
proprietary input this is just a barrel
connector it's awesome and Ursel means I
can replace it yeah and it's not gonna
be a problem let's open this package and
see what we're actually looking at here
for power so nicely organized mm-hmm
okay so power is simply 5 volts 2 amps
nice so you can find that you can power
this from an old riod power yeah you
already have a 5 volt adapter for sure
with a barrel connector so especially if
you're into a species you you definitely
have that so that is literally all there
is to it so now I can plug in my headset
microphone and I can plug in my USB
flash drive and I can then start doing
my computing or my gaming and all I have
to do is just push that record button so
as Anna's gonna start recording to the
card it records 1080p 30 frames per
second like I mentioned it is an mp4
container H dot 264 so it's like a
format that everybody can work with it's
a CPU format it's it's gonna work on any
system and it's been around long enough
that pretty much any editor will work
with it but there is that little itty
bitty CD as well which if you have an
optical drive yeah because um when it
comes down to editing and stuff like for
like videos and stuff you're talking
about a second audio source so if you're
using a headset yeah it's the audio
gonna be within the same mp4 file or is
it gonna be a separate MP yeah I think
it's just gonna like mix it in so how is
that going to be if you've got like your
your game playing music blaring and
you're trying to talk over it I think
you're gonna have to find that balance
yeah
and then probably in post-process kind
of equalize things and clean it up the
way that you want it to be I don't I
don't think it's gonna be as fancy as
like multi-channel like a surround sound
but hey you know it's great it's a great
piece of kit for me what I love about it
so thinking about that Henry most of the
stuff I'm gonna be doing is not gonna be
gameplay most of the stuff I'm going to
be doing is connecting this up to a
laptop with HDMI output and plugging in
the microphone there's no audio coming
off the laptop and instead what I'm
doing is I'm walking people through
screencasts how perfect is this to be
able to put that in your laptop bag
mm-hmm take that with you anywhere your
laptop is and just sit down and say okay
I'm gonna record a screencast now plug
in my USB flash drive plug in my
microphone plug in the power plug in the
HDMI press record there you go and
you're done and you just do it and then
just bring it into your whatever editor
and and you're done
there you go good do keep in mind your
USB flash drive according to the
specifications now I haven't tried
anything else but I haven't needed to
but the drive does have to be formatted
fat32 which sounds kind of old-school
almost like what yeah no ex fat no NTFS
I did read one review that said maybe
NTFS will work well I can't vouch for
that because I haven't tried it yet
right feel free to format your Drive
NTFS try yet see if it works but know
that fat32 is the one that the
manufacturer recommends fat32 of course
has a two gig file size limit so what
happens when you hit that file size
limit like two gigs is like I don't know
16 minutes worth of video is something
like that so if you're the whole thing
is it corrupt it just explodes it's just
it exactly just like you're just like
your dash cam right what it does is it
rolls to the next file name file number
right so you're gonna end up so if you
record an hour's worth of video you
don't worry yeah it has a two gig limit
but it's gonna just create a bunch of
sequential two gig files which you then
piece together in your editor
be seamless and beautiful beautiful yeah
so that's not a flaw in any way no I
don't think so I think the only way that
you could consider that a flaw if you
will is that you're also limited you
can't have like a 12 terabyte drive
connected to it right fat32 doesn't
support it but that said who needs it
you're gonna be recording and then
importing it to your computer this is a
four gig card I can record several hours
worth of video probably on this so you
know No no harm done I'm gonna transfer
it onto my computer to edit it so yeah
but if you have any questions about it
and we encountered this with the last
one when we reviewed it is that a lot of
people had questions for it they weren't
sure you know this or that and wanted us
to try a couple things and I'm willing
to do that like what happens if I plug
it into a certain device one quick
caveat if I may before we wrap up the
review is that the HDMI of course does
not strip away copy protection so if the
content that you're streaming into it is
copy protected it's still going to be
susceptible to those copy protections
okay that said you could put in line
sorry I'm not used to having having a
little bit of whiskers on my face so I
think you could put in line a decoder so
like a you can get a lot of different
splitters like HDMI splitters strip away
copy protection and that will then allow
you to use it I'm not endorsing or
saying use it for illegal copying I'm
saying there are probably some games on
your console that you're perfectly
welcome to upload videos to YouTube of
you playing them but they might have
copy protection so then you have that
problem if you encounter that just keep
that in mind it's probably the copy
protection you need to put something in
between to remove copy protection and
that is not a fault of this device
that's the nature of what copy
protection is so there it is it's the
aged AGP Tech HD video capture device
it's 1080p 30 30 frames and this is the
next-gen version and I look forward to
doing some casts with it and you're
gonna see all kinds of videos coming off
of this in the next little while and
then you'll know you know how the
quality looks we give it a try cap five
TV slash AGP tech you know the policies
at Amazon if you're not happy you can
always send it back but I think you're
just gonna love it yeah happy I think so
absolutely
all right Sasha if we can head over to
your newsroom if you are also certainly
alright here are the stories were
covering this week in the category five
TV newsroom face book is facing a legal
fight over their facial recognition
technology Hyundai has released a
version of its Sonata Hybrid that has
solar panels to help charge its battery
Google's health so called augmented
reality microscope has pruned
surprisingly accurate at detecting and
diagnosing cancerous tumors in real-time
Windows users stop what you're doing
because Microsoft has issued a critical
warning across all versions of its
platforms including every version of
Windows 10 and told users that they must
act now and Elon Musk has revealed the
staggering cost of building a
civilization on Mars these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week stop
texting
Linux bias I'm Sasha Rickman and here
the top stories you're following this
week Facebook is facing a legal fight
over their facial recognition technology
a class-action lawsuit has been raised
against Facebook whose appeal has been
thrown out by the San Francisco Court
Facebook yadda yadda privacy
such-and-such Mark Zuckerberg blah blah
blah lawsuit payout repeat yes we're
sick of it too so we're moving on to
other stories Hyundai has released a
version of its sonata hybrid that has
the Korean carmakers said up to 60% of
the power for the car's battery could be
supplied if the solar roof was used for
six hours a day the panels can provide
enough power to propel the sonata for
1300 kilometers per year
Hyundai said it plans to offer the roof
as an optional extra on other models as
well Hyundai says that fitting hybrids
with panels that can harvest solar
energy will boost fuel efficiency and
lower carbon dioxide emissions Hyundai
is working on a second generation solar
roof that would be semi-transparent to
help light the cars cabin Honda is not
the first car manufacturer to use solar
panels on a vehicle the Sun power
charging systems are available as an
option on the Toyota Prius and the
luxury karma Rivero is also available
with one in addition Dutch startup
lightyear is working on an electric car
that uses solar panels on its bonnet and
roof to help charge the vehicles
batteries the solar roof equipped Sonata
will be on sale in North America and
Korea Hyundai says it has no plans to
sell it in other regions and they've yet
to reveal the price hmm Hyundai I'm
telling you okay I will review this for
you not even a Hyundai put it on my
little spark on my yes and I will can we
hybridize your car for you like we just
buy a bunch of panels for
Amazon for a hundred bucks car is tiny
it's like smaller than this table it's a
small car I feel like it wouldn't take
very many panels to make it go yeah why
don't we just I love it like I know it
seems almost silly that this is not
happening more right right but I'm like
why isn't it happening or am like how
genius is it and yet obvious right that
a car can be powered by the Sun and that
will actually like cut down on fuel
emissions the cost of fuel do you think
about it cars drive on roads usually
everything is clear cut along the road
so it's not a lot of shading and
everything so it's really charging as it
goes as well right like I feel like sure
it's just all of the time going to club
I just feel like like I know like it's
not gonna it's not gonna make as much
energy from the Sun as you're using but
it's gonna supplement and and so from
that I mean so switching to electric
cars the the problem if you will is that
now we need to switch to plugging it
into electricity and that electricity
could be dirty electricity like who's
using coal still right and and those
kinds of things so here's like a clean
option that it's just there the power is
there and we're not utilized there so
like there's dead zones in in spots
where you can overdrive between charge
stations like there's not enough there's
not an there aren't enough charge
station get you where you need to go and
so if you had something that would
bridge the gap like this yeah right get
you a little bit more local efficiency
out of your hotel in the desert where
you can park and kick your feet up and
watch a show while your car charges from
the Sun there you go perfect
I actually am shocked that solar panels
aren't used more often yes it's true
general you know what I think it is is
we're so dependent on a hundred and
twenty volts and 240 volts so everything
has to be like converted to
those higher voltages but what if and
I'm thinking single board computers
right so we're we're really getting used
to using things like raspberry PI's and
the Odroid xu4 is and now like the h2s
and like these are devices that are
using five volts right some of them yeah
and I think about pine 64 a lot of their
boards use five volts of electricity so
why can't you pull that off of a battery
that powers up to 12 volts just off the
battery alone this is pretty timely
because today is the 16th anniversary of
that big blackout really ya know here in
Ontario Ontario no way
16 years 16 years ago that yeah we had
that blackout it lasted a month I mean I
know I my daughter isn't even 16 without
work when it happened that's how old I
am
I was I was at Walmart when the power
places and people are just like
happening what is this yeah girl my way
home from work everybody was giving
things away because like they I guess
have apocalypse it was the apocalypse
yeah and keep their frozen goods we're
talking a 36-hour power outage is bad
the sky was beautiful and very very I
remember about it by the end of it I was
like don't open the fridge yeah it's
like the milk is gonna go bad if you
open the fridge it's like that's how
everybody was people were running out of
gas because gas pumps and couldn't
charge you so if we go back to solar
panels now if you and I'm not saying the
whole world could be powered by solar
panels but you could have enough of a
backup to bridge us for a while what if
it just started with supplementing our
need for 110 volts very good right what
if I could take like my my flat panel
monitor that uses five volts of power
and use or even charge my computer
battery my laptop battery with 12 volt
power coming off of a solar panel yeah
like why it's somewhere
we start doing that and now we were also
seeing that so the price was prohibitive
right now and I just think about Amazon
because like we all shop Amazon and
they're a partner of the show so you can
shop through them through our links and
that will support us but that aside
prices have come down from like $500 a
panel - here we are in 2019 for a
hundred and hundred and forty bucks you
can get an 80 or 100 watt panel right
for a hundred and eighty bucks you can
get the panel plus the the device the
the board that needs to convert it to
the plug-in the battery - and everything
else if that new spot in Toronto that
that is it Google alphabets doing that
new city in Toronto I wonder I bet you
there's gonna be a ton of solar panels
and honey yeah right they're gonna have
solar panel probably walkways that stay
like warm enough that they don't iced
over like it's yeah it's gonna be oh
yeah I think the marriage roid is just
saying in our discord that they in fact
also sells solar panels with the
built-in regulators that's handy so then
I start to think about and I like that
he also threw in the the proper word so
I'm like the thing that you plug all the
things into a regulator built into the
panel
so now all of a sudden like that isn't
that the perfect scenario for like your
surveillance camera your why's cam is 5
volts you're wise cam is 5 volts hello
dominus your router is possibly 5 volts
maybe maybe 9 volts or something like
that
right so all these things can be powered
off of one of those panels then if
you've got enough amperage enough
wattage to be able to power several
devices in chain then hey you could
actually do a lot with solar mm-hmm and
then you know supplement it with with
like electricity out of the wall so that
if there is no Sun one day then it
charges it up I just think hey maybe
maybe it's time to look at this kind of
stuff
when I was traveling to Newfoundland I
thought to myself it's so windy here why
aren't there more turbines why are there
more just backyard wind turbines mm-hmm
right why but I think it's just the
connection between the idea and putting
it into practice
sure now more people are putting the
solar panels in the practice more people
will be harnessing the power of the
earth to make electricity now I'm like
picturing a hybrid car with solar panels
on the roof of the wind turbine
it's like pull in the air and let's just
do that you just stop wherever you are
and instead of like juicing up your car
you're just selling your excess energy
that yeah company is paying you once
yeah that's a good idea
Google health so called augmented
reality Microsoft microscope has proven
surprisingly accurate detecting and
diagnosing cancerous tumors in real time
the device is essentially a standard
microscope decked out with two extra
components a camera and a computer
running AI software with an NVIDIA Titan
XP GPU to accelerate the number
crunching the camera continuously snaps
images of body tissue placed under a
microscope and passes these images to a
convolutional neural network on the
computer to analyze in return the neural
net spits out in real-time allegedly a
heat map of the cells in the image
labeling areas that are benign and
abnormal on the screen for doctors to
inspect Google researchers tried using
the device to detect the presence of
cancer in samples of breast and prostate
cells the algorithms had a performance
score of 92% when detecting cancerous
lymph nodes in breast cancer and 93% for
prostate cancer the size of the images
used in this experiment measure 50 120
by 50 120 pixels that's much larger than
what's typically used for today's deep
learning algorithms which have millions
of parameters and require billions of
floating-point operations just to
process images as big as 3
by 300 pixels to cope with these larger
images the convolutional neural network
which is based on Google's inception v3
architecture breaks them up into little
patches that are analyzed individually
although they used it to study cancer
they believe that device might prove
useful for other applications and is
cheaper than conventional whole slide
scanners by about one or two magnitudes
is impacting eye care and the world in
general it blows my mind that accuracy
is incredible for something that is not
cost prohibitive like it's so much
cheaper than regular slide imogen
smaller to I mean like this is a digital
microscope and nowadays like with like
the cada spin three with five what is it
5.1 teraflops of Gen P you like this is
ridiculous
so like couldn't you just like use that
to power it instead of a big PC with a
bunch of Nvidia cards yeah like maybe I
don't know that's where this whole thing
is going it's like everything's getting
smaller and faster and smaller or not
we're probably not that far from the
time when we just do this as the hell
spray boom I love Star Trek I'm so blown
away when I'm wasn't I was doing my
facility placement and I was taking
people's temperatures it's just like a
little like it looks like a little gun
you just need a microscope but like
accurately you can find cancer cells
just amazing do you think 90 to 93
percent well that's a pretty big margin
of error as well yeah you're gonna
remember to that okay that's incredible
really when you think about it like this
is AI saying okay I'm analyzing this
image from this from this microscope of
these cells right and I'm determining
that there's a high probability that
this is cancerous so now this goes into
a pile that the doctor now looks at
right so what are we doing here is the
computer is the AI deciding you have
cancer no the AI is saying that one no
chance that one's cancerous you don't
need to look at that doc okay so now the
doctor who's already overtaxed for time
who's really really busy and trying to
keep on top of everything and now the AI
is saying you don't need to look at this
pile this pile we know that these are
not cancerous this pile there's a chance
so take a look at these ones so how many
have we now weeded out how many
negatives right exactly right
are we ruling out so which I love the
direction AI is taking I can't I can't
say enough about we did that one we did
that interview from the book I can't
remember
Martin Ford yes yeah when we were
talking about his book about AI
specifically the Oh what is it called
intelligence smart achill Intel
you guys are doing this okay it's right
there architects architects architects
are intelligence by martin fort
so aires if you want to fall in love
with AI as i have that's the book for it
oh yeah no this is an intriguing read
it's written like interviews yeah and
Martin speaks with the people who are
developing AI yeah and goes and talks to
them about how AI is about to change the
world and that's what architects of
intelligence are the architects of
intelligence yeah it's a very good book
so it's good check it out and put it on
my homework to do list there you go
[Laughter]
act now posting in its Security Response
Center Microsoft told users that it has
discovered two critical remote code
execution or RC
Eve owner abilities which are were
mobile this means that they could be
weaponized to launch malware that jumps
automatically from PC to PC spreading
across the world without any action from
the user and there are potentially
hundreds of millions of vulnerable
computers in a statement
Simon Pope Microsoft's director of
incident response confirmed the
vulnerabilities affected quote all
supported versions of Windows 10
including server versions unquote back
in March Microsoft pegged Windows 10
numbers at 800 million in addition to
this Pope confirmed that other affected
versions of windows are Windows 7 sp1
Windows Server 2 2008 r2 sp1 Windows
Server 2012 Windows 8.1 Windows Server
2012 r2 these are important platforms
about with far less market share popes
dressed speed is of the essence stating
quote it is important that affected
systems are patched as quickly as
possible
end quote well ZDNet warned users that
it is now quote a race to patch before
the attacks get underway and quote
microsoft warns that an attacker could
then install programs view change or
delete data or create new accounts with
full user rights dear I literally just
updated just as I left so I feel safer
already
mm-hmm this kind of malware this well
I'm not gonna say malware this kind of
exploit yes just goes to show how like
when I talk about ransomware and I say
you need to do this and you need to do
this and you need to be knowledgeable
about this well really when it comes
down to these types of exploits it's not
the users fault no it is often not the
users fault and that's what I mean when
I say ransomware is not the same kind of
malware yeah it's not the same kind of
thing putting in an anti-virus is not
going to stop it you need to be really
diligent and here they are saying now
it's time to update all of your Windows
machines because we found this exploit
and it's not a case of
if it gets exploited no this is a when
and it's gonna happen quickly and it's
gonna happen hard if people aren't ready
for it right especially now that it's in
the public space so that's it didn't
know about it before now they know about
it oh yeah but yeah that's scary as soon
as it gets out there it's like that's
when the matter is and it's horrible for
me to say this but true nobody really
wants to update Windows yeah that's a
pain right they don't want to do it on a
Friday at 3:00 when the boss walks up
and you're just slacking you'd be like
huh yeah yeah well there's your Monday
morning is your Monday morning you can
update on Friday I messed up my
corporate culture because like what if
you have certain software that you need
a certain addition so you can't update
any further right mm-hmm there's
scenarios like that that do exist so
it's just like I think in that case
Henry then it's important to find out
like get on to Microsoft TechNet and and
find out what the KB article is that
applies to this particular fix and
install just that patch if that's you
but that's not the average user that's
like a corporate user who is holding
back packages on purpose so scary stuff
though folks and we can't reiterate
enough hey they're saying this is gonna
happen and that's a big exploit it
reminds me of eternal blue in a lot of
ways and it's like mm hmm you don't want
to be yeah you don't want to and you're
not gonna have to do anything it's just
gonna get in
it's an exploit in the operating system
that's switched to Linux so you could
switch to lemon it's a good Mary oh oh
hey switch to Linux yeah yes please my
personal favorite right now is Linux
Mint 19 really yeah I'm really enjoying
it you're a minty fresh guy that's good
job yeah I never used to like mint now
I'm like pouring on the wintermint no
it's it's really good it's been stable
it's rock-solid I'm using it in
production and I love it
good yeah see so hey if your distro
hopping and you tried mini I get to try
and save Robbie sent me yeah if this
last story gave you the same taste
your mouth that it gave me switch to MIT
Linux Mint love it nice Elon Musk has
revealed the staggering cost of building
a civilization on Mars no doubt about it
constructing a city on a planet that's
hundreds of mill of millions of miles
away is going to be expensive
in fact SpaceX CEO Elon Musk estimates
the cost to be anywhere quote between
100 billion and 100 trillion dollars
according to a tweet from last week to
put that into that range into
perspective the project could cost us
anywhere between 10% of the United
States 2019 military budget and three
times the u.s. is 2018 tax revenue in
other words it'll be a ridiculous amount
of cash to arrive at his estimation
must calculated the approximate future
cost of sending a minimum payload to
Mars quote to nearest order of magnitude
and quote at $100,000 per tonne in 2017
musk estimated it would be closer to
140,000 dollars per ton so if a million
tons of cargo are required for a
self-sustaining city musk said as much
as Amex musk said as much during a July
interview with CBS News the total cost
would come out to about 100 billion
dollars for SpaceX to ever get a shot at
starting construction of the first ever
city on another planet the company will
have to get its starship rocket off the
ground first and that's only the
beginning if it all goes well the
gigantic rocket could eventually ferry
100 tons of payload to Mars if SpaceX
figures out a way to refuel the rocket
in Earth orbit first hmm so exciting
this story sounded like a word problem
in like put solar panels on the roof it
sounds to me like it's gonna have to be
nuke yeah
plain and simple right what are they
powering this thing with rocket fuel
what is this feel you speak of wind
power I'm so excited alright
why why not why what space why go to
Mars why set up a human civilization on
Mars seem like people not do it why not
do it on the moon why not trillion
dollars I'm making earth better see
there's an where's the adventure in that
Sasha I get where she's saying though
it's like if we can't treat earth with
respect why should we go to another why
are we taking a barren wasteland and
putting people on it because like it's a
seed we will be able to survive on earth
when we turn it into barren planet it's
gonna turn into Venus and go global
warming is category 5 does not
necessarily endorse these statements
yeah okay I understand the need for
adventure
Elon I understand yeah yeah and I
actually like the idea that we might
venture it just for a little boo at the
planet but I don't know about setting up
a civilization challenge the real reason
why I wants to go to Mars is that he
forgot his car keys and the Tesla he
sent into space so he has to go back and
get it no I don't know I think like you
can get so much from it right and like
it's the initial investment like that
doesn't say all the technology is all
the experience I'm gonna get out of
having like rice on Mars or something
yeah but I I definitely see where Sasha
was going with the entire like why
should I go to Mars kind of situation
it's like it's a venture come on like
it's the same reason why they went to
North America and all the other things
right like it's out there that's
interesting nice how much does it cost
to build a city in general space like
that's what I would want to know so is
it really out there but or like ups on
what's the ROI like where is the ROI
here view on generations of Martians
that are born there that re-enter our
orbit like our we couldn't like our our
can they come back to us can they be
born there and come back to us because
they would technically evolve in the
sense that like their body would be like
adapted to I think it's like points 6g
so like if they would come to earth
there be used to less gravity so they
would have health
on earth that's not even mentioning the
health problems going out there right
because why was his name Kelly you know
like the twin brothers yeah
Bing in a year in space actually changed
his DNA right like there are no longer
twins there are no longer identical
twins because they change so well so is
he an alien man he needs a new passport
and I know it's I think it's a really
interesting thing that we're getting
involved with but um if you on musk has
an extra seat I like my home here just
be back by next Wednesday then Wow I
have so many thoughts going through my
head like what what could be done right
and like what are we gonna find when
we're there like could there be a mining
opportunity things like that fine
probably the grass is not greener I
think it's always gonna be a one-way
trip to like cuz you think about okay
well they're they're trying to figure
out how can we fuel up here on earth and
get there right right
so get there and figure out how to fuel
up there it ain't happening right so
you're gonna have to they're saying
refuel in Earth's orbit so they're gonna
have to bake meet halfway
right so they're gonna have to never let
their tank run beyond a certain yeah
amount I can't see them being able to
return them well actually it's because
you know what the reason okay the reason
I don't talk about space law is I can go
forever about them but have you heard
about the Gateway project in the sense
that they want to have like a star sorry
there's a Stargate project
yeah Stargate you know it's a see you
later go through no like they want to
have like the Gateway right orbiting the
moon because if you've ever seen like
the movie moon or like any of those
other movies that there's like helium-3
on the moon which could be used as
rocket fuel so it's just like you could
use the moon to power future missions in
the sense that you can refuel there yeah
and then you can go to like jr. for a
weekend yeah vacation untighten
ourselves space talks and everything
else I mean they're just we got it we've
got it figured out you want to start
I'm gonna just have a migraine thinking
about all these cuties hey we've got to
take a quick look at coin gecko here's
what the crypto market looked like as of
1800 hours Eastern Time on Wednesday
August 14 2019 bitcoin is up a little
bit
gaining $140 an 81 cents us at ten
thousand one hundred seventy seven
dollars 91 cents us Facebook Libre is
still not trading litecoin is has also
gained and I should say we didn't look
at these numbers last week so so these
are two weeks of gains at eighty nine
dollars and fifty eight cents aetherium
is down oh and sorry I should say
litecoin is actually up at 188 37 which
is the highest I've seen oh that's like
nearly double where it was two weeks ago
which is pretty fantastic etherium is
that one hundred and eighty $8.37 losing
$27 Manero is at seventy eight dollars
and 89 cents u.s. torque is at 1.0 to
ten thousandths of a cent and they're
going through all kinds of changes right
now so keep an eye on them and turtle
coin and I should say with torque yes
they're going through a lot of changes
but their value is going up and there's
still a small coin cool turtle coin is
has lost a lot at zero point five seven
ten thousandths of a cent so it's about
half the value of torque we're at one
point they were not connect right one
two one
so do keep in mind cryptocurrency is a
market that never closes it's always
volatile and it changes from day to day
moment to moment because it's 24/7 and
you never know what is going to affect
it so I did read something very cool
about cryptocurrency in the news New
Zealand has made it legal to pace wages
salaries in crypto currency now that's
so cool way to go Newsies that is a
volatile wave that's very risky but it
just goes to show I mean currency until
until yeah that's it but what it how can
you project the future value of
something that is volatile and like if
you're paid X amount of Bitcoin an hour
yeah but there's nothing to say bitcoin
is going to be worth X honest honest
futures it is going to be whatever it
decides to be I'm gonna stick with my
dollar to be honest at least for now for
you or against you that's the nature of
a volatile market and once we see
Facebook's Libra yeah hit the market
we're gonna see is it possible to have a
stable coin currency like cryptocurrency
is that going to be possible and if it
is then maybe we'll finally have a way
to be able to say hey yeah I'll take
payment in Libra or whatever it happens
to be maybe it'll help stabilize the
other markets as well big thanks to Roy
W Nash in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson
and I'm Henry baileyabroad we've got to
take a really quick break when we come
back we're gonna be looking how we can
get rid of those pesky pests in our
house with no chemicals stick around
technology TV we're kinda at that season
at the end of kind of nearing the end of
summer when like the fruit flies are all
over the place we got little tiny moths
and gnats and all these little fly
things that are zipping around now I
have a wise cam and so I really like I
capture them because it sets off these
alerts and push notifications every
night at 3:00 a.m. and it turns out it's
just a bug zipping around in in the
infrared right so you know whether
you've got fruit flies in the house even
mosquitoes gotten in through the door
house flies or another issue these like
over the the next couple of weeks here
in in Ontario and probably where you are
you can look at an electronic device
that's going to help to eliminate those
so no chemicals needed nothing else it's
just something that you plug in and turn
on so I've got to to look at just really
briefly so that we can say you know what
is the difference and I've had these for
a couple of weeks just to try them and
so I've got the traditional kind of
electronic zapper mm-hm so this is the
one that you plug in and turn on and
then we've got this new one that is a
lot larger than I was expecting and
looks like it could be like from the
future looks like one of those bladeless
fans yeah it really does look like a
Dyson fan or something like that but
it's it's on right now and it's
absolutely there are no bugs in here so
quick rundown so this one zaps
the insects and it works really really
well for any size I mean whether it's a
fruit fly or house fly yes so what it
actually does is this one so there are
there is a very similar way of
attracting the insects between these two
devices but this one is more visible to
humans because it's pointed out so
you'll see there are actually LED lights
and these LED lights emit
like a purple hue UV light that is
actually set to it's a frequency that
mosquitoes and bugs are attracted to
let's say they want to fly into that
light if they fly into this light now
there's a grill here that is gonna say
yeah bad move but right okay so this
works really really well
however there is a caveat with this it
tripped my circuit breaker yeah but when
a fly or no so a couple things for one
it can be very very loud so when a bug
flies into it sometimes it's like a okay
okay yes so that can be really a little
bit yeah a little bit gory and certainly
you know if you're putting it in your
kitchen and stuff just it's it seems
almost unsanitary all of a sudden when
you when you know that it's happening
and it's kind of gross but I have to
tell you this so it works really well it
tripped my circuit breaker that's a big
no-no but it does work really well so
you want to plug this in somewhere it's
and it's not plugged into a circuit like
that your fridge is on right because you
don't you don't want to turn it on and
walk away and then have your fridge turn
off right that happened now I should say
it's been plugged in for over a week and
it only happened once right I plugged my
water cooler in one the same I guess
panel circuit II think my TV okay I went
it clicked on and off I ended up getting
a big line that way maybe like
permanently I should have that yeah
perhaps perhaps so I liked that it
worked but I don't like that it was
noisy and that it tripped the breaker
and it is pretty bright like Beckett
turns it off because she doesn't like
the brightness of it this one here as
you can hear it's on right now and there
it's completely silent I don't know if
you guys can even what yeah so how this
one works is it uses that light to
attract the insects but when they fly in
as you said it's like it looks like a
one of those Dyson fan lists or
bladeless fans yeah and it really is
it's a sight it's what
call a cyclone and it pulls them down
into a reservoir Wow no there aren't
because because I cleaned up before but
there were some mods and things like
that so so it actually pulls them down
in there and dehydrates and kills them
take a bug dehydrator
but it's silent it's quiet it's it just
sits that yeah you just put it in it
when the lights go out it attracts them
into it and it oh yes yeah
the LEDs are like I get that one you can
get you can get either one of these at
camp five dot TV slash bugs nice Cyril
but that one I think this is the one
that is the clear winner for me yes it
is I've got a plugged into my laptop
demonstration but it does come with a
like a dad after as well for AC I should
say though it's huge it's a lot bigger
than I was expecting
yeah so it's it's like a centerpiece to
Z to get bugs you could put something on
here like something on there thank yous
it is like a cup holder paper mash hey
would it would perfectly fit an Amazon
echo dot there you go
makes you put your camera on there and
see them flying in
I don't know anyways cat5 got TV / bugs
they both worked very very well this one
worked very well this one worked
exceptionally well but this one is
completely silent and as long as you
don't mind that it takes up a bigger
footprint it is it's probably the nicer
of the two nice and just you don't even
know it's running so that is all the
time that we have this week folks it's
been so great having you here thanks to
these two hey thanks to you don't forget
we are on patreon we'd love to have your
support hey if you want to just throw
five dollars a month into the tip jar on
patreon it's a great way to support the
show and and incidentally you're gonna
get access to some behind the scenes
stuff you're going to be able to get
access to some things that are only
available to patrons you can find out
more about the perks right there at
patreon.com slash category-five nice and
easy we're also on twitter at category 5
TV we're on we're on YouTube as category
5 TV and Linux tech show comm check out
both of those and subscribe click the
bell and also we're on roku channel
store and you can get us on Kodi
by simply going to github.com slash cat
5 TV and go into the repositories and
you'll see our kodi channel there
unfortunately Plex has discontinued
channel support so I'm looking into
whether or not that is something that
we're going to be able to continue we do
have flex channel but I'm not sure if
that's going to work with the upcoming
releases of Plex which is unfortunate of
course our main website does bring
everything together we have RSS feeds
we've got we're on like Google podcasts
and everything else so check out
category 5 TV for more more ways to
connect with us have a wonderful week
everybody see you next Wednesday
you
