here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom Mark
Zuckerberg says regulators and
governments should play a more active
role in controlling Internet content TP
links all-in-one sr20 smart home router
allows arbitrary command execution from
a local network connection office depot
and support com have settled out of
court and cost up thirty five million
dollars after they were accused of lying
to people that their PCs were infected
with malware in order to charge them
cleanup fees and effective immediately
Microsoft is ending all ebook sales in
its Microsoft Store for Windows PCs
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere this is the category 5 dot
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories the slow Linux bias
Jeff Weston jela you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
what aren't you right you're a terrible
actor
what this we're acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
Sachi Rickman and here are the top
stories were following this week Mark
role in controlling Internet content in
an op-ed published in The Washington
Post Facebook's chief says the
responsibility for monitoring harmful
content is too great for firms alone he
calls for new laws in four areas quote
harmful content election integrity
privacy and data portability it comes
two weeks after a gunman used the site
to livestream his attack on a mosque in
Christchurch New Zealand mr. Zuckerberg
writes quote lawmakers often tell me we
have too much power over speech and
frankly I agree end quote
he describes a new set of rules he would
like to see enforced on tech companies
and he says these new regulations should
be the same for all websites so that
it's easier to stop quote harmful
content from spreading quickly across
platforms the letter the open letter
which will also be published in some
European newspapers comes as the social
network faces questions over its role in
the Cambridge analytic a scandal around
data misused during the election
campaigns the site has also been
criticized for failing to stop the
spread of footage of the Christchurch
killings in which fifty Muslims died as
they prayed mr. Zuckerberg letter did
not specifically name these incidents
however the site earlier announced that
it was considering introducing
restrictions on live-streaming in the
of the Christchurch attacks on Thursday
it also said that it would banned white
nationalism and separatism from the site
on Friday it also started labeling
political ads appearing on Facebook in
EU countries showing how the advertiser
who the advertiser is how much they paid
and who they've targeted mr. Zuckerberg
says quote Facebook has a responsibility
to help address these issues and I'm
looking forward to discussing them with
lawmakers around the world
end quote hmm I don't envy them for sure
Wow so yeah I mean it's it's a heavy
it's a heavy topic and I think that
means yes I think that mr. Zuckerberg
has bitten off more than he can chew and
now realizes it I think he's bang on
though and stating that this should not
necessarily fall on the shoulders of the
individual site creators right and we
know that Facebook is misstepped over
content privacy and and some of the
decisions that they've made we know that
but they're also a company right they're
not regulators they're not there to you
know they're not that they're their goal
wasn't to become content regulators
right but that's something that they
have to do there doesn't need to be laws
made in that regard I just I don't envy
them because like you create platforms
you create things thinking that they're
gonna be used for good yeah I hear the
topic aside my problem the one that's
really irking me with this story is I
feel like this is nothing more than a PR
passing of the buck like there's an
essence of that weave I just gone
through this massive investigation sure
in Congress and all that kind of stuff
dealing with Facebook and what's going
on in the internet and the whole time
soccer it's like I don't want to talk
about we like we just sell ads that's
what
we do it's not our problem we don't know
how people use a platform and now he
turns around and goes government you got
to take control it's it's a complete
about-face and like it to me it sounds
like a PR thing because he's gonna get
lamb basted again for not having a
little bit Jeff but but I do agree with
the fact that you know what you screwed
it up somebody else has to yeah there's
a place it's I feel like this is a
little bit him saying this is just too
much for me and it's true it is too much
for him well it is yes for his company's
right I'm sure its company like if I
founded a company that had this really
great feature set I don't ever think oh
this is going to be used for this
purpose right exhaust where I'm like
yeah it's definitely a PR thing but at
the same time I would be beside myself
as a CEO as a as a founder of a company
to to be like okay what the heck am I
gonna do right like this is not what
this was built for well it's not but I
mean at the end of the day if technology
has taught us anything it's that the
original purpose is not what it ends up
getting shoes for when it comes to
humans we right find another way to use
it
and I as a creative person notice though
no I know but is he not correct at least
to some degree and saying that this
should not all fall on him his company
and and similarly it shouldn't all fall
on YouTube and Google and it shouldn't
offer like there should be yeah because
that was never the intention this is not
what it was built for and also their
company is not a regulator no it's not I
agree there should be some parameters
around it I just what bothers me about
this is I feel like it's it's a total
hey I'm not the problem when all along
he's part of the problem he started the
problem to be clean ya know there's a
car that changed the internet rules yeah
I remember when Facebook's whole thing
was well unless you tell us not to we're
gonna open you up to the world and that
was a whole new concept and ever since
then Facebook has changed
everything's been done on the Internet
and now we have this internet world were
in because of the influence of Facebook
so then to turn around and go oh man we
owe it's beyond us it's like what didn't
you think about the power you had before
yeah it's a little bit tough it's so
it's hard I think that right now he said
what he needs to say and he and I think
he knows now yeah there did there does
need to be more involvement and policies
and regulations mm-hmm and he he can't
implement them it needs to be the
government that does yep
and I want to say this with all due
respect and with a certain sensitivity
to what has gone on in Christchurch but
you you are a hunter and so you you
purchase guns yep and some of our
viewers same thing and it's the
responsibility of the regulator's in
order to make sure that those guns are
getting into the hands of hunters and
into law abiding citizens hands yeah
there's not regulations on all that
right and not to make that as a
comparison but just to say isn't it sort
of similar in that it doesn't it
shouldn't fall on the manufacturer or on
the creator of the tool to regulate it
and that there should me I think he's
very correct and saying that this should
be something that the government is
stepping up and regulating I I'm not
saying that I'm for or or anti
regulation I'm just saying maybe it
should be if it has to be regulated
mmm-hmm it should be on a higher level
than the individual companies it
shouldn't fall on Facebook it should
fall on the government because the
government can make that a blanket
regulation that impacts all of the
social media sites if Facebook goes down
and another social media site rises up
I want those same regulations to now
impact the security and privacy
and everything else and and the the way
content streaming is used on those
platforms as much as they were on
Facebook so shouldn't it be the
regulator's or the government that is in
charge of that I I agree that's what
government's role is it's needs to keep
the country and its population safe and
to make sure we yeah and it's not just a
physical safety no it's it's so much
more but I mean you know it's a very
open and it's a very open-ended
conversation and we could have loads of
opinions please share yours comment
below let us know what you think just
post a comment and we'd love to have
that discussion with you
TP links all-in-one sr20 smart home
router allows arbitrary command
execution from a local network
connection last Wednesday 90 days after
he informed tp-link of the issue and
received no response
Matthew Garrett a well known Google
security engineer an open source
contributor disclosed a proof-of-concept
exploit to demonstrate a vulnerability
affecting TP links router the 38 line
script shows that you can execute any
command you choose on the device with
root privileges without authentication
Garrett explained that TP links Hardware
often incorporates TDD P the tp-link
device debug protocol which has had
multiple vulnerabilities in the past
among them version 1 did not require a
password vulnerability to a local attack
could be exploited if an attacker
manages to get a malicious download onto
a machine connected to an SR 20 router
Garrett is urging tp-link to provide a
way to report security flaws and not to
ship debug not to ship debug demons on
production firm while firmware so yeah a
router like this oh you don't
necessarily think about it but the
router the device that you plug your
internet into and all your computers
into is a computer right and that
computer if it's stupidly configured
kentley run arbitrary code or it has
case pretty much anything that the
attacker wants to run on your tp-link
router now the first one didn't require
a password but all the rest of them
since then have is that I suppose it's
it has to do with the first generation
of the the firmware ran and some of that
code is still in existence even in the
newer firmware so they exploit can still
affect future iterations as well but the
simple fact that hey this was reported
90 days prior and tp-link has not done
anything about it or even responded to
the security researcher is it just kind
of shows that this is this a big problem
right and you're not really taking the
necessary steps to resolve it like when
I had if I had something like this come
up and when I have something come up in
my own in my workplace yeah like it's
dealt with the same day
yeah not ignored for 90 days not ignored
for 90 days like this is something that
is not a small thing this is the route
execution so understand that's like the
administrator rights to your network and
this is the very device that connects
all your computers together and connects
them to the Internet and with that so
they're allowed to run any code T
feelings like the router itself is that
like a router that would be used not
only just in homes that could it be used
in offices and chores like it could
right yeah I mean it's a consumer device
but well what's what's the sr20 like if
I do a quick search let's see what the
sr20 looks like here Sascha DP like if
somebody was yeah it's just a home
router ok I mean not like anyways but I
mean how many small businesses have just
a simple home router I mean that's quite
common yeah so we discussed how hard it
would be if something crashed to back
everything to bring it back up so if you
had your router I'm confused as to like
would if some
went on into your router could it it
could crash everything not about
crashing and so that they can now
infiltrate right access everything and
ransomware is a very big threat right
okay so I am right I'm right on the on
the right line where then you could lose
not only the business now like it was
the aluminum factory
yeah right the ransomware exactly it's
it's reminiscent of that in my mind okay
I I have these discussions often about
cybersecurity and and you know what what
makes us exploitable and and people
think all and nobody's interested in us
but now that this is publicly known
information it's just a simple script
that goes out on the internet and looks
for these routers and as soon as it
finds them what does it do it installs
arbitrary code into that router now
understand it has to get in through the
land so they have to compromise a
computer to get into the router but when
they do now they can run anything so now
and this is what happens they're not
interested in you quite quite frankly
the small business is using one of those
routers as their home as their business
router yeah they're probably not
interested in what you have but they
might be interested in your vendors they
might be interested in other companies
so all of a sudden filtrate your network
they get access to your email they get
access to the flow of traffic and they
say ok well you're dealing you're
dealing with this vendor maybe it's an
aluminum vendor right let's just put a
scenario in there so now we have your
email we have the capability of sending
email from your email because we've
infiltrated your router we know who your
vendor is this aluminum company and now
we're gonna send them our code and we're
gonna disguise it as an invoice right
and as soon as it gets to that aluminum
company now the person who is not
cybersecurity trained and knowledgeable
about watching for phishing attacks and
those kinds of threats sees that email
and says okay you know here's an invoice
from such-and-such company that okay I'm
gonna open that and guess what now
you can see the ripple effect yeah it's
not necessarily you that is being
attacked it's that now you've got a
device that is a exploitable connector
it could be you that's attacked though
and if you're a small business then it's
gonna put you out of business
it is simple if your backups are not
good or if you can't stand to be offline
for 30 days then guess what I mean we
had the discussion that hydro is a huge
company right I'm in a manufacturer like
they can recover easily yeah they'll
just absorb it and write it off but a
small company with 10 computers and 10
employees it could put you out of
business very easily so so you know keep
those things in mind when we talked
about these kinds of exploits it's not
something to take lightly and we do
mention them because you need to know
about the exploits that are possible on
your network right you're using one of
those devices the sr20 from tp-link I
think it's probably best that you switch
because they have not patched it yet and
it's not looking like they are well yeah
the best predictor of future behavior is
past behavior and for 90 days they've
said nothing so yeah and now it's a
publicly known exploit yeah so that's
that's where the problem lies
office Depot and support comm have
settled out of court and coughed up 35
million dollars after they were accused
of lying to people that their PCs were
infected with malware in order to charge
them cleanup fees the lawsuit was
brought against them by the US Federal
Trade Commission which alleged staff at
the tech duo falsely claimed software
nasties were lingering on customers
computers to make a fast buck the
lawsuit filed in southern Florida claims
the two companies including Office Depot
subsidiary office max
from 2009 until November 2016
misrepresented the state of consumers
computers by using a sales tool designed
to convince people to pay for diagnostic
and repair services the complaint stated
quote in a new and numerous incident
instances throughout this time period
defendants use the PC health check tool
report to Office Depot's companies
customers that the scan had found or
identified malware symptoms
when it had not done so additionally in
numerous instances the PC health check
for sleeve reported to consumers that
the program had found infections on the
consumers computer and quote the
according to the watchdogs complaint the
PC health check is in capable of finding
malware support com allegedly programmed
the software so that whenever an office
depot company employee checked any one
of four check boxes describing a generic
concern like slowness before the scan
started the scan would automatically
report the detection of malware symptoms
and for a time infections
the FTC court filing explained the PC
health check-up malware symptoms was
entirely dependent on whether any of the
initial check box statements was checked
and not on the actual state of the
computer the cost for PC health check
the defendant according to the FTC built
customers out of tens of millions of
dollars to settle the charges Office
Depot has agreed to pay twenty five
million dollars in support comm will pay
10 million dollars the money will be
refunded to affected customers so oh wow
can you imagine training somebody okay
when somebody comes in and they want
their computer to be checked just make
sure you check one of those boxes
because it may not be that simple set
they probably didn't know I mean I
haven't seen the stuff but I mean you're
not gonna make that widely spread to go
hey by the way we're gonna scam
everybody they probably just just said
find out what they're in for
oh my computer slow or my you know you
got to remember these are like employees
at a retailer right they're not
necessarily highly educated technicians
these are folks that they check off the
box and they and the software tells them
what they're supposed to respond with
yeah oh well the software tells me that
yeah you probably have malware so like
it's like could you imagine if the
medical field was like that's like do
you have a cough yes it's cancer you're
telling me that the medical
field isn't like that it kind of is
we're not gonna go there
we're not gonna go there question really
that is related to this story yes
so this scan had no actual ability to
detect whether or not anything was wrong
no I don't think it said that what it
said is that it creates a false positive
right my it's all in the wording yeah it
was it did do a search but if you tick
one of those boxes it was programmed to
come up with hey we got a problem
mmm so that it forces you to do a check
I mean it's like walking you know kind
of be like walking into a car mechanic
be like I need to get an oil change by
the way did you know your oil filter is
bad and you haven't filled up your
headlight fluid right it's like oh
please fill up my headlight full yeah
it's gonna be a $35 charge right that's
the same deal it's like you come in for
a legit is you it might be that your
brakes are bad but then they sell you
headlight fluid $300 doesn't fly easily
under the radar I think okay so think of
us who are these people who are going
into one of these stores to get their
computer fixed it's not the computer
technician that's right it's people that
don't write it's people who don't know
and so you're you go in and the person
that you see as a technician who's
really a salesperson is possibly on
commission now I'll just put that out
there but it's quite possibly that you
know there are sales targets and there
are benefits to making those targets so
do you have you noticed your computers
running a little slow now think about
this for a second they just brought
their computer into this shop why did
they do that because they're something I
packed it up I brought it in oh yeah
yeah I've noticed that it's running a
little bit slow everybody does you're
running Microsoft Windows it's perfect
for six months you know hey have you
noticed that it's been having you know
it's taken its time doing its updates
yeah okay well you and I know that it's
Windows 10 expect such but that user
who's bringing it in to to these stores
is
yeah yeah that's so yeah okay well the
software says on my here's what it says
you like it's a survey right it's a
survey do you think this yeah check the
box do you is this yeah check the box
and this worded cleverly to make them
say yeah yeah because then I can say and
it's all in the wording clever wording
yeah these are malware like symptoms
it's possible that malware could be
causing these symptoms
yeah malware can cause your computer to
be slow is this malware no but malware
can make your updates take a long time
yes just windows yeah exactly but it's
all in the clever wording and so for
that user they just okay yeah all right
so $300 is just like let's get my
computer fixed I need it back right and
people will pay that as opposed to oh I
got to drop 12 under bucks for a new
computer mm-hmm my heart hurts for these
people I'm happy they're getting their
money back but how many people get taken
like this yeah like it happens all the
time it's just unfortunate that in this
case it was so blatant by a company that
you would think you can trust yeah but I
wish we could help everybody like and I
get phone calls from all over Canada and
the United States saying you know can
how can I get to fix this for me and
it's like do you have a friend or a
trusted relative that that can help you
with this and you know so quite often
it's not know I don't know anyone who's
good with computers so you've got to
take it into someone to fix it do you
know who can fix it for you
no I don't well act guess where they're
going yeah yeah going to the retailer
they bought it at well I've got like
I've got a friend she regularly connects
with me going okay this is going on how
do I fix this and so I'll try and walk
you through it I have that friend what
but we like we live a couple hours away
and say I can't be like well this is
what you do so quite often she's like
I'm gonna go to share a geek squad sure
wherever so anybody's gonna shoot some
walks and she's like oh they're so nice
they help me all the time good something
like this she would not think to yeah
question
yeah ah so scammy yeah so be careful out
there folks oh yeah and I think as the
tick technically savvy folks maybe it's
a bit of our responsibility to to try to
direct these people it's just like when
we are trying to teach folks how to
recognize a phishing scam well try to
recognize the signs of this type of
thing happening and just because this
one has been stopped and thwarted and
they're paying the fees and they're
stopping doing what they're doing it
doesn't mean that they're not out there
so when when one of my friends was
looking at buying a house she's never
bought a house before so she called up
somebody locally that she knew that has
bought houses before and brought him
with her to meet with the homeowner and
to meet with the realtor because she
recognized that you know I I really need
somebody who knows what they're talking
about so maybe your tech friend doesn't
have the time to fix it for you but
maybe your tech friend could go with you
to that shop and say you know what
there's something shady about and maybe
you can be that friend maybe you can be
that person who you don't have the time
to fix it but you could go with them -
the technical place that's gonna fix it
for them and say you know what I don't
trust them maybe we need to try the next
guy or maybe it's you know everything
that they said made sense they they
absolutely absolutely that that they
checked all the boxes and it is
definitely now where so be that friend I
mean we can be that friend we don't have
time to fix it so be the friend who can
at least go with them exactly and make
sense of or at least refer them back to
this episode like he said be that friend
exactly effective immediately Microsoft
is ending all ebook sales in its
Microsoft stores for Windows PCs
previously purchased ebooks will be
removed from users libraries in early
July
even free ones will be deleted the
company will offer full refunds to any
users for any books they've purchased or
pre-ordered the move is a part of
strategy to help streamline the focus of
the Microsoft Store it seems that the
company no longer has an interest in
trying to compete with Amazon
Apple books and Google Play Books it's a
bit hard to imagine why anyone would go
with Microsoft over those options anyway
if you have purchased ebooks from
Microsoft
you can continue accessing them through
the edge browser until everything
vanishes in July after that customers
can expect to automatically receive a
refund if your original payment method
is no longer valid or if you used a gift
card you'll receive a credit back to
your Microsoft account for use at the
online Microsoft Store Microsoft will
also offer an additional $25 credit to
your Microsoft account if you an
annotated or marked any of the ebooks
that you purchased from the Microsoft
Store prior to April 2nd 2019 I didn't
even know that they sold ebooks
well they don't I don't think they did
but if there are one a book they sold if
you bought yeah this is not working out
Vista all over again right but that's
exactly it it's like it's another thing
that Microsoft's gone we're not so good
at this we're getting get out of it
we're out yeah not that Google has ever
done that but it's a smart move
Microsoft didn't do a very good job
selling my perspective is completely
different my perspective is this when
we've had this discussion maybe you do
tell I don't like that a company that
I'm purchasing from can renege on the
things that I've purchased so and I'm
the guy who still buys physical copies
of CDs compact discs are you young uns
that's heat and then I rip them to mp3s
and then I have my digital copy and I
can do whatever I want with it right I
don't buy iTunes downloads I don't buy
mp3 downloads or any any of those kinds
of things or I buy physical media that's
I'm old school a little bit I know I buy
DVDs and I rip them to my plex server I
don't buy videos that are streaming
through
like I'll rent videos right because like
if I was to go to a rental store I know
I only have it for 24 hours anyways but
if I expect to keep it I would never buy
a digital video from someone like like
who is it that we get our rentals from
the movie theater galaxy oh no not
Blockbuster the Cineplex store you can
rent stuff so I rent my videos through
them yet I would never buy one but
that's me
I would physically buy a DVD and then I
would would you not and this is what I'm
confused with in this is okay you buy a
book well it turns out you rent it cuz
you're there taking the back but you buy
a book from the store can't you coffee
it to something else can you back it up
you can't do anything we are not sure
not necessarily well but if they have
control well yeah find it within the
file system and then you like it but it
all depends on the file format yeah if
it's if it's an area hacker or not oh
yeah but an ePub file is different if
PDF file is different from buying a book
from a store that gives you access to it
within the store like if if you had a
Kindle app and you bought the book and
you paid for the book you can't take
that out of the Kindle app so if Kindle
decided to just suddenly shut down which
they're not there Amazon's doing okay
last I checked but if they did shut it
down I would just lose that book it
would not be accessible fine I want the
physical book right fine print says they
still own they can get for like $25.99
or whatever your cost is what happens
then to the money that was paid to the
publisher so if they're taking all the
money back
yeah are they they're gonna turn around
go to the publisher be like yeah all we
did was rents yeah we want that money
back yeah we're not hearing about that
though are we
no but that is that the other side of it
maybe it is it's a good thought Jeff I
would tell you I won per year I just
started listening to an audio book in my
car during my drives and I would be
livid if because I am deep in it now and
I am hooked oh it's like I know where
you're going if they took that from me
I would be really upset Netflix removed
Backyardigans what I'm just saying my
kids was into Backyardigans when Netflix
pulled it from the lineup yeah nothing
stays on Netflix forever I know I know
you're right so why you know what you're
getting Netflix is different though
because you're paying a fee you're not
buying the program right you lie above
yeah but I think you've got a really
kind of an interesting thought where
what happens to the publisher my wife as
an author and she publishes through KTP
right Kindle direct so you can buy her
books on Kindle well what if they
suddenly said no we're not going to do
that anymore and they can't take the
money back from the arm no they can't no
so I don't know it's the authors I sure
how many people are going well I had
that book but now I don't have the book
anymore yeah what was the book again
authors maybe now they have to go buy
the hardcopy
maybe they're halfway through the book
and they're like all I need to finish
this I need to order it
well the same time we're talking about
Microsoft story I don't think it's that
big of a player in the market no I feel
like they can afford to pay everybody
back their money in so how many of you
bought a Bitcoin a single Bitcoin last
week well let's look at what coin gecko
says about the crypto market and how it
looked as of 1800 hours on August 4
August 3rd 2019 if you bought a Bitcoin
last week so one week ago from when we
broadcast this show what I'd be laughing
you would have an extra one thousand two
hundred and fourteen dollars in one sent
us in your bank account from one Bitcoin
it is up to five thousand two hundred
and thirty three dollars and two cents
us
it's pretty big game choice that would
be good we call those people who have
thousands of Bitcoin yeah that's right
you dummy
yeah okay they lost yeah it was twenty
one thousand a couple yeah litecoin is
up as well ninety five dollars and
seventy cents this week up from 61 last
week aetherium also on the rise up at
one hundred and seventy six dollars and
fifty four since gaining thirty eight
dollars and 64 cents so we're on the
up-and-up Monero also gaining at 71
dollars and 27 cents per Manero now Jeff
are you ready for stellate I am so the
only one that lost at 0.04 ten
thousandth of a cent drop it's down at
one point five six ten thousandth of a
sentinel coin is in fact gaining and is
up higher than stellite this week at one
point seven ten thousandth of a cent you
go little guy but you can have billions
of turtle coin that's all relative for I
feel like we need a hair comb hair coin
no because we got very poor we have a
turtle in the hair ha and so that kind
of hangs on the hair goes really fast
where you going with Jeff is like our
word half hair do you remember if you
decide to invest in the cryptocurrency
market that it is is always volatile and
never closes
big thanks to Ray W Nash in our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Jeff Boston
