covering the weeks tops exploits like
Linux bias both Hewlett Packard
Enterprise and IBM have announced
significant cost-cutting measures
including pay cuts and significant job
losses the Cova 19 crisis is hitting
almost every market sector hard and now
the dominoes are starting to fall as
other small medium and large businesses
reduce operations or shudder for good
the tech firms that rely on enterprise
clients are themselves taking heavy
losses and laying off personnel IBM
announced his layoffs late Thursday in a
statement the company said the highly
competitive marketplace requires
flexibility to constantly remix
high-value skills which in this case
means deciding you no longer place a
high value on the skills a significant
number of employees bring to the
socially distance table IBM like many
firms now facing cuts and layoffs was
not in the best of financial situations
before Cova 19 hit the company's CEO
Arvind Krishna has been with the company
for decades but only stepped into the
top seed in April saying at the time he
was focused on building up the parts of
the company that support cloud computing
and artificial intelligence and was
willing to move away from the rest IVM
did not specify how many positions were
being cut but both The Wall Street
Journal and Bloomberg News report
thousands of employees were affected in
five states California New York North
Carolina Missouri and Pennsylvania IBM
said in a statement it would offer
subsidized medical coverage to affected
employees for the next 12 months Hewlett
Packard Enterprise also announced its
cost-cutting plans on Thursday as part
of its more recent quarterly earnings
report the company will cut some
salaries through at least the end of
October with executives seeing pay cuts
of between 20 to 25 percent the company
like younger tech brethren such as
Facebook and Twitter says it will
further save money by embracing remote
work in the longer
term allowing it to shutter some offices
