covering the week's top text dorks like
Linux bias Patrick Stewart appeared on
the view this week and personally
invited host Whoopi Goldberg to appear
in the second season of Star Trek Picard
it's so yes sir while promoting the
premiere of the Picard series Stewart
surprise Goldberg sang quote I'm here
with a formal no I'm healed with a
formal invitation it's for you will be
for me Alex Kurtzman who is the senior
executive producer of Star Trek taka and
all of his colleagues of which I am one
want to invite you into the second
season Stewart's invitation was met with
a big smile from Whoopi who played the
beloved and timeless Guinan character in
Star Trek The Next Generation since the
well as soon as the applause from the
studio audience subsided and following a
warm hug between the two actors what be
responded enthusiastically saying yes
good season 2 of Star Trek Picard was
already confirmed a month before the
first season even began airing Wow other
confirmed TNG alumni are Jonathan Frakes
as William Riker Marina Sirtis as Deanna
Troi
brent Spiner as data aka b4 and I must
say brent we love you and Jonathan del
arco as hue of Borg also along for the
show is Star Trek voyagers Jeri Ryan as
seven of nine Star Trek Picard is
available as of January 23rd in Canada
in the US and the very next day
[Music]
