welcome to the coffee break
hey guys it's the 14th of May 20 20 feet
be having a nap I'm not surprised you're
so unhappy
you're gonna need a lot of coffee I'm
already shaky
how many cups you had so far
Oh how many pots remember 20 years ago
my parents beat me and my brother and
their and they made some coffee in a pot
and they were in the kitchen going to
fix something first
it's a while me and my brother was in
the living room and deke coffee and
while he has had the one cup before
there was they were finished bringing
stuff out I have already emptied a one
on yesterday's coffee break when when
Robbie was getting ready to shut us down
just before he shut us down cuz sober
you were Ram you were looking yesterday
you didn't you didn't have much to say
but but I was steaming I'm sorry but I
was trying to I was trying to throw a
smart comment at your way to say YUM oh
boo that was a video that I recall
saying you know but but Robbie cut us
off before we yeah yeah sorry man I
really hate to cut off the punch line I
don't care it's not a problem it's no
word I'll say it to his face I don't
care you know it's all good fun so hi
today I see Peter bp9 soul boo and Ron
hey guys didn't see Ron need to go in
together screen there is so yesterday
was a fun day for me exciting it may be
our main server I was Andy still
the dose yeah so they are attacking our
DNS server we have we have 27 feet of
[Music]
ipv4 address so this box has 32 IP
addresses that they can do what you want
with in addition to the one main so the
33 IP addresses you have a few services
and they and as someone started
attacking our DNS server so I got
started to get an email from Nagios that
there was some high load on our server
it's almost never is in high load so
after a few hours I took a few hours
before I noticed that I had had an email
so I was trying to block and for a few
minutes I am for an hour so I ended up
blocking the entire internet from
resolving the PTR records for our and IP
addresses and it turned out that they
are attacking only the 32 as IP subnets
and not our main IP address so now I am
buying the server it's only only
responding to one of the to our main IP
address to local host and one of the 32
IP address which we have as segmented
out 8 addresses for virtual service now
I know
Robbie's going to suggest like PF sent
or something like that to say you if
somebody tries to hit the machine in a
bad way they get fanned right away is
that something you would even consider
on on our it is located in
did already located in the data center
and it is the only one we have so if he
ever were to put another box in front of
that in order to block that it will
double our server hosting cost my for
you server that I had member I told you
boys about that yeah when I had it
co-located because it had so much space
I actually mounted Hardware firewall
inside the chassis so the ethernet was
plugged into like a just a dongle
hanging out the back like a keystone
jack and then that went into the into
the firewall and then that went to the
motherboards so you mounted the firewall
device inside the for you guys tape to
the lid oh yeah whatever that works it
works real well all right for years that
to us server and that old server and I
looked it up a few weeks ago and their
BIOS for that server was from 2000 to
2004 so we had that running back at 9:00
6:00 until 2016 and it was it was a
configure it and he wrote the a he had
eight hours on the bus with the Machine
going to the data center plug it in and
it was it was a desktop system he was he
got a deal on a 2-u chassis also he
adapted it into the problem is that
there DM
yeah peep-peep PCI cards that VJ cards
they are you need a for you chassis in
order to monteux's right yeah we had to
you Jesse be there for you BJ cord
plugged into that yeah yeah so our
friend of ours who lived in that area he
took this it was just in a few months
first month was the setting is set in
grabs it was nothing important on it yet
so he had took this our home and during
the weekend he had the PCI card itself
if you find in a chewy chassis so the
and added a metal bar that he to find it
around the backplane yeah what I was
never going to leave that service and
know what I would do in a case like that
you can buy PCI Express extenders so you
can actually get like you plug it into
the PCI Express and then it has a cable
which is usually like a USB 3 cable and
then you can just mount the card
anywhere within about six inches and you
know that you can do that in order to
deep thoughts you have to know you can
do it to have the idea of doing it I
just think it's funny that your row that
your colleague rode the bus with with
the server in here normally normally you
know in the States or probably in Canada
I'm not sure how the public transport
system is in Canada rugby but the public
transport system basically doesn't exist
here in the states that there's a few
big cities really like New York and Los
Angeles and maybe separate just go with
the
but that have some public transport
infrastructure but most most do not must
rely on their cars to get on one point
to the other even even in the small town
of Bracebridge where Becca and I grew up
there is what's called a trolley and it
is decorated to look like Santa's sleigh
yeah and quite often is driven by
somebody who looks exactly like Santa
Claus like me and anyway drive around
town and I would just bring it the bells
and anytime you wanted to get on it was
just a free trip around town here in
Barre though we've got a full transit
system and if I his attorney to make us
return it to him to include San
Francisco because they have the but and
I don't know if that counts as a
full-blown public transport system or
not they haven't the rail carriage don't
they the trams same as Melbourne does
actually yeah that's true
good point yep find it funny that my and
he was on the after he had mounted it on
in the data center and while he was
waiting for the bus to go back
it was contacted by some guy who was
influenced by alcohol he asked if he was
interested in you know deal he had a
laptop so what he did was that he
immediately started the interest and
asked questions about and it was shown
and how it worked and so on and while he
was entertaining the drug addicts who
sent a text message he said the text
message to the police in Oslo saying
that he was on the rail station on the
bus station and discarded and after so
he was so after he was approached at the
bus station
he had the laptop with him at the bus
station
yes and he was given reward and that's a
$200 paid for and then he could buy with
that he could buy a pint book pro
telegenic tomorrow
a run over here I'm going to jump to the
hospital to get a new valve ok people
born when is that is that invasive or is
that something external it external one
I do I'd appreciate a wee bit be good as
a basis he told me that I have to wait
six months and I'm home and it that
situation in terms of said I was in his
life to be life was instinctive raids
which result weeks or so on and off
because of problems are they
so I've routed wait said so it to be
somewhere and they finally got their
finger down until tomorrow morning
knowing o'clock
remember general anaesthetic when they
do this Peter roll we're going to sleep
of it no thank you do it without
anaesthetic okay sounds like this is an
external component but they just have to
install it for you take off the old now
and in the
when a director because because they
push and shove it
we had a death notice they did and she
couldn't she could near what you could
you screams I was on you she would
appreciate any Australian uh-oh
I've got my sound from you yeah you know
what she called a what he was screaming
out dancing that watch okay we're like
true she was deaf but GG but are getting
the books about what to do it I don't
wish you all the best without Peter I
hope everything goes well sir it's not
good for you yeah hard for you with a
man right today I will show you gave the
noise up this house is great
I see you I see a bubble in the middle
of the picture is that that was a window
what happened for the service of another
sci-fi 3d graphics and I've done it
thank you very much yeah I don't what
about ago they were going to this looks
like Mill Creek yeah they're not told
you don't enjoy playing around which as
a match and crisis equations which is
stuck it into the interest rate is a day
in the state of where winter to love
around isn't going to work
ignore game day during our spring
remember honey it was real
look related as well by the way I'm good
ever had I still have a copy of it just
for in the early 90s there was a scream
server you you could get Johnny castaway
I've never made a screensaver
ever I did make in public school I made
a boss key so that whatever I was doing
I could hit a hotkey and it would it
would look like I was using word perfect
for a 5.1 teacher came by I'd get the
key and boom it's WordPerfect I've been
away I got the game it was a music CD
and it was it was not obscene but it was
in somewhere in some situation it was
safe for work so to say it was a used
program of some kind and in the book in
the in and in the bottom of the screen
there was an icon that you can press and
when you press that it opened a
full-blown spreadsheet so it looked like
something important the dreaded Boston
yeah I never did anything that was like
anything other than benign however I did
stuff that I wasn't supposed to be doing
so you know if I got caught the teacher
would you know kick me off the computers
or whatever and back then the you know
the school didn't have a computer for
every kid it was like you're lucky if
you got on the computer that's what dope
did to the USB stick yesterday dog did
to the USB stick yet today still works
today's Godfather Jude I've got another
case year which is an old neon take the
case out and put it into the do case
because she couldn't get up to do what
software on though think that you got
okay so but you so the dog chewed up to
your ass bleep is that what happened
you've got ecology oh no it's got the OP
see what happened she does know about
main chain she looks at food or
something zani' cheap solely this please
take it
a month yet it was it like money but it
does he would be secure right affected
theater today if it was him to be witty
do properly very lucky prevent other
ones which she done it went to the USB
sticks actually they don't like it
though Gigi's been granted a big debate
with the Devrient
so so Robbie um I checked out that
project that you linked to in
yesterday's some kinda like the others
for accountants yes and it's hilarious
it's like perfectly accurate you're
right about that
I I did look at I didn't see I did not
see last night's run because I looked at
it before yesterday's coffee break was
rendered but first me is there is
captions there for every language not
just English but from Swedish and yeah
yeah all the other just boggles my mind
I wanted that because I wanted to make
it more accessible yeah yeah to do using
just to provide that to the community so
people who are not english-speaking can
still follow the show so you'll notice
not only are there transcripts but
there's also that's our coupon codes
yeah BBD or whatever yeah raw so you can
use those for closed captioning but you
but you say you write the program you
wrote something to convert the voice
into captions in juice and then it pipes
it through the Google Translate API and
then it and then fuse out the the same
file but in a different language and I
think I do that for something like I
don't know 60 or 70 languages yes
alright that's what I'm saying it was
surprised if you wait to have a good
laugh than you would tell you could take
a leash and a paragraph or something
google translator back again we're gonna
overdub it go and check it out and see
what what the Norwegian translation of
today's coffee break is and ice I know
Norwegian I can't read Norwegian sorry
something you'll have to that's your job
you'll have to do there and come back to
us tomorrow and tell us how accurate it
is we did on on category five I don't
know if you guys ever caught it
Hillary and I did a bad lip reading and
we also did a newscast where I remember
that it was actually Kerry Kerry web
returned to us for the day and Kerry had
to do the news I think if I recall
correctly having been translated into
multiple languages and then back to
English and she had says not only who
did she was liberated wasn't she wasn't
you breathing so he had to also lip read
Sasha at the same time to figure out
what it was that she would say it was
just it was a I was rolling on the floor
laughing you know we're watching that
one it was funny we should do some fun
stuff like that sometimes did that we
see these 28 to yours so years ago the
very first check of his first album he
had a 40 second intro as if you he was
going to do a live session or something
and then yeah yeah there was this big
announcement and I mean ladies and
gentlemen bla bla bla and they they were
so on translating and and she was not
trusting petting and crackly and that
was part of the earth so how did
translating live was I was at a church
visiting a church in Tehran and there
was a he Iceland so he risk preaching in
which we had so much and at least the
three trying to do he said it's funny to
watch people who do signed and that was
not a valid sign I probably just swore
it somebody I didn't mention but when
you when you're signing for the death
you know deal with that often have you
know you have people standing up and
doing a presentation then you've got
somebody signing off to the left or
right yeah but if whoever's doing the
presentation is just freaking nonsense
the signer eventually just gives up
South Africa ever approach they have
their some press conference and
presentations daily in case it's not
clear so within a video but they this
was the the official Olympic
broadcast and doing everything that they
have made the Hudson speaking done they
had done a sign in his own language and
after the Olympics it was discovered
that the person doing the oh yes I
remember did not know anything so he was
just basically what you just did bp9
like we paid to be there oh we do WI
that they decided to forgive me as I
spent just glad my cousin stepped over
maybe we told me that if you gentlemen
are as King of England if you to tell me
to predict are the different database of
the year they fit and this course has
two lives quite sunny ways in one month
anyway yeah I thought what company you
could gaze over though trouble's rogue
stolen language and one of the problems
with their doing sign language is that
yeah sign language here in America it's
not the same as oh yeah almost this guy
did not know anything I could tell you
my kid that's how it works right yeah
you went to bed before the show I don't
blame you well we're going pretty
tray o'clock in the morning your time
Peter so I would like to go to bed
before the show yesterday you didn't
make it for there I was having a hard
time Robbie I was trying to figure out
do you just want to go home and give up
for the day or do you just want to keep
getting the encouragement I mean I don't
know well I'm trying to encourage you
because I was worried that you were just
so tired you were just done with it and
getting sick and tired of it sorry you
probably thought you probably saw on my
face by the end of it I was a little
Robbie was that pewter today I kept
sorry I beg you look good baby look
today again cracked it jam and crackers
so I don't know what that one explained
that must be running playing I don't
know one good things for each language
so I'm saying is I'm design yet the way
out a regional regional slang that I'd
novel million with probably another word
for nekkid or something you know tired
yeah you could say that was a long day
because I started work you know I start
work at 6 a.m. and didn't finish until
1:00 a.m. yeah I like doing that well
Robbie did you some sleep you need it
what you working on Robbie
I was workable Achara still at one
o'clock alright guys well alright I'm
gonna keep the coffee flowing so have a
great afternoon we'll see you murdered
thanks man enjoy see you later bye bye
night
you
