[Music]
come back to the cryptic corner yes I
missed you too
it's been some time and as you can see
I'm working from home it's probably most
of us were running through deep crisis
on a global level and if you're working
in the travel industry or tharam
industry then life is not easy and as
there was always when there was a
difficulty there's always also an
opportunity and I see the opportunity
very clear here in my industry which is
the cryptocurrency industry or
blockchain technology there was even a
research done by LinkedIn that came out
with a result that companies are
desperate need of blockchain developers
and that's what I want to focus on today
I want to focus on on a positive note
and so who's currently hiring blockchain
developers or blockchain people that
that our knowledge of blockchain
technologies well first of course
startups there are a lot of startups
that have got brilliant ideas they have
got money and they're desperate look off
of good people then large companies
because they know that I have to move
into blockchain technologies tech firms
as always and governments so those are
the four big sectors that are currently
looking for blockchain people and what
are they looking for well of course the
usual subjects marketing which includes
public relations and communication and
social networking and so on trade and
sales this is a big one support help
desk and so on legal compliance and my
favorite is development and that's what
I want to focus on where are a
technology channel and so that's why I
would like to focus more on development
so if you don't know anything about
programming don't worry about it this
this is your moment here and so what
you'll see behind me there's a step by
step idea on how you can get into this
market how you can find a job in this
industry and so the first step if you
don't know anything about a programming
language is learn the program
language now it's not difficult within a
day you know the basics it's really easy
to do that it's all about logic if you
can't think in a logical way then
learning a programming language is
something very easy and I would start
with JavaScript and they're all by the
way very similar so there's no big
differences between one language and the
other I would start with JavaScript
because you can develop something that
is easily visible on a screen or so and
then if you know JavaScript I would go
over into Python because that's what a
lot of crypto companies or platforms are
using there is lot there is a lot of
help free help on YouTube for example
just Google JavaScript courses and
you'll find multitude of them and you'll
see by the reviews if there are serious
ones or not
there's also professional organizations
like Coursera or EDX that offer from
universities like Harvard or similar
courses on programming just run through
a few of them learn as much as you can I
said and the basics you know them within
one day once you've got that knowledge I
would focus on blockchain so let's take
a theorem which is the one that most
people are certain you are using and
searching for learn about the theorem
how easy theorem working look under the
hood they learn how they're currently
doing the proof of work what is this
smart contract all those things so that
that you can have a decent discussion
with somebody and you know more or less
what a theorem how do you theorem
platform works once that's done then of
course you have to dive deep into a
theorem programming so solidity and so
on Oh in future it will be VIPRE and
that is something that can also be
learned very fast there are also
specialist courses that offer this year
like udemy.com and and bit degree they
offer courses you also see the the
the reviews of people what they think of
those courses you can just I mean
they're not free but they're cheap 20
bucks for you 50 bucks it's not a big
deal but my favorite one is Ivan on tank
because he's been like the technical
guru in this industry on a lower level
and his courses are really fantastic
because he's office he offers everything
from the start so if you've got don't
have much knowledge just take his
courses and you'll get very fast to a
level where you do know what it is about
after about two months in this
programming environment
I can guarantee you know 99 percent more
than most of the people yeah so it's a
lot of superficial talk that you hear
about this crypto industry but because
it's a very young industry there is not
much knowledge out there and and you
don't want to become a Bitcoin developer
anyway which is tough you want to just
find a job then two months work should
do the job now of course I put also up a
list of where to find a job so there are
several websites then that that offer
already now job search I would visit
them and just I mean they've got the
usual ones and every country works
different the list that I have cut here
is of course more America US focused but
every country has got their own list of
developers that they're using so that's
for me today so it's very positive in a
sense that if you know if you want to go
into the blockchain industry if you know
about cryptocurrencies the the future's
bright I mean it's literally like that I
wish you good luck if you've got any
questions then just contact us and we
will see on how we can help you anyway
that's for me so back to the studio
thanks bye thanks Robert
just a reminder we're not giving away
financial advice here on the
category-five TV newsroom but instead
just trying to give you some information
and leaving it up to you to make the
decision
