welcome to today's community coffee
break it is Friday
15th of May 2020 and with us we have me
up in I don't know where I am on the on
the matrix but I'm here then we have
Sabu and then we have Peter and then we
have Ron Ron Morissette and then we have
a new and you cover to the to the group
welcome mo mo maravilla it looks like
and then Robby's good to see you and
then we had we had Robbie but he's done
disappeared on us so I don't know where
is that though you know he'll probably
be back anyway so we can carry on there
now that we've got to now that we've got
the intro out of the way I just thought
I'd get the formalities out of the way
that way we can carry on and and Robbie
can take his time getting in so yeah
during the past during a lot of these we
have been talking about all the take
this is yeah I am going to do some odd
schooling ham CD so I have CDRC for ham
it's it's my mother and in my country
it's legal what's gonna be I'm almost
afraid to ask what's gonna be on that
side but I'm in my twin over there did
the intro for you Robbie so we just we
just deep into the conversations bp9
I've never joined this before um III
don't know if it's me that's
I don't know what's going on but I
wouldn't have to go it was very surreal
it was absolutely through and go into
the place and I don't mind they give me
great licorice and we won't do for free
licorice a creamy green liquid
and I've data for road are nowhere near
the Bulls row but you don't have to rub
it I'd rather that blowing stuff degree
you know I poked find out of love beater
come on now when you know just I want to
know this green licorice taste any
different - much like I've lost the
internet you know maybe yeah well I'm
using the hotspot on the phone this time
because sure enough my house Internet
just died but looks like it's it looks
like I'm using the phone hotspot it's
working so my question to you Peter was
does green licorice taste any different
to regular of attrition need any
vulnerable on green liquid this is like
having a zoom meeting with Peter I
thought he said free licorice bp9
thought he said green licorice and no it
was some
green liquid it's an Australian
listening to an Irishman what do you
expect for Robby even it like green
apple it's really yummy
yeah well it's probably just sugar like
all the other licorice is no such no
such thing as real licorice anymore not
from here yes you can find licorice from
a licorice plant you got to grow your
own know that because it like that the
whole vegan movement and everything else
like there's all these health stores
that have cropped up right so we've got
like like a health food grocery store
where you pay like four dollars for
something that you normally pay a dollar
for they have that kind of stuff like
liquid licorice root you can get in a
bag yeah exists man that exists which
comes from a licorice plant yes but it's
a licorice planet no I was telling the
truth
Alicia you can buy it even like we the
game ended and they had the extra that
we get on this thing
and they drive moves up times I don't
approach is about ecology very bro but I
loved all day anyway in the years but
I've been rejected
I got a break from visual and that's our
life is about the world so no you're
gonna find that wearing a headset is
gonna be really really useful here I
actually do be like I feel like the dog
in the Simpson you guys remember the old
episode of The Simpsons when they're
like blah blah blah blah blah blah
cookie Charlie Brown in the in the
classroom
I do I bet we do our that unfortunately
my Baptist definitely not good enough
[Music]
but at the end of a few minutes of some
character who is doing things and
they're right where he started when he's
trying to be clever and he's more
chapped and here it was and there's an
end credit with their name of the person
who did the drawing and he would be the
sound and during that he running blah
blah blah
yeah yeah every day I use it for work so
yeah yeah I'm used to I have all my
devices with zoom I have Linux of course
and I and my work computer my Windows
desktop and my phone and sometimes I
join with more than one device to
confuse people yeah Peter does that
sometimes too yeah you think you've been
known to do that - Robbie earlier from
one device yeah and he joined me there
three or four clients in one show and no
one knows I think get all your old
phones and put them around yourself like
the matrix
well my hessington they already cracked
out once today so well several times
today it's so it's the terminal hard
poem this morning I don't know
yeah yeah why then that's why the
hotspot well it's a long weekend here in
embarrass I don't have to work on Monday
so we clean links birthday or something
what's Victoria deranged I think it's
good for today because in Australia we
probably do that too but I we are we're
under the monarchy but none of us
understand that in Australia Australia
is the same no surprise there
documentary on human rights and Saudi
Arabia and the Queen did a prank on the
King I think he was visiting at 10 20
years ago and the queen is a suitable
driver she has stopped driving now but
she used to drive an earlier time and so
on and she in order to prove not saying
anything but to prove a point that there
she do she shoved into his car he was
coming and from the airport I think and
through her place and he and he was
expecting a mail drop it is sit in the
front
no she oh yeah I like that story and he
was not happy but he put it on for the
weekend I've got some comments about the
about the point zone oh yes you may
remember you guys know
no in like two weeks two weeks ago it
got to like the the edge of China and
then disappeared
that's what might have looked at you
have an update that says at least you
you know read yours is where it was got
one coming as well I'm talking about the
phone phone Oh nope mine's the pine time
no I'm waiting I'm ready for the I'm
waiting for the for the consumer-ready
pine phone I think I might get a death
yes we'll see I'm using all phones is
the you be poor tradition is supposed to
be consumer ready I think if it now in
my room I don't know fine yeah because
I've got a spear saying of important on
a bomb just a little just a little bit
yeah well I was looking at how on text
get managed right remember I had that
discussion with you about cognitive and
gal they're using evolution so I've been
sort of using different clients to set
different attributes on a Ricard for
instance like an anniversary date yeah
on a vCard well it turns out Thunderbird
and and Android they all use a they all
use X X minus sign and of it or X -
anniversary as the v card tag - tag the
date of the anniversary but evolution
does not evolution uses X - evolution
- anniversary so evolution can't you
know doesn't pay any attention to an
anniversary date that Thunderbird or
Android might sit and Thunderbird are
paying attention to what evolution might
say that was one of my kin we are thank
you
simple is it not I mean but no it had to
be yeah evolution though I'll be card
the card attached file its XML right so
you know create a snort XML it's not
only taught XML what it is home base oh
just place my line
yes right it's only benefits you could
do a said search and and set it up to
automatically replace all instances of X
- evolution with angle - not if it's
sitting in a dev server then in in a car
dev server somewhere it's gonna be a bit
hard to to miss with it you know create
it so it will if you create on your pine
phone Graham might be able to see it on
your ear computer or on Amy or on any
evolution client because I'm imagining
the pine phone would you use the
evolution client to manage contact you
you know you can fix this in PHP
discussing there's too much so they
create a new standard well which is the
which is the card and tell them server
that I'm using is written in PHP so I
can probably do this this is what I'm
thinking what if you took your
open-source CalDAV server and created
some kind of an extension for that
so the CalDAV server would adapt it an
output parsed caldera accept that any
Cal devil card dev server the primary
goal of that thing is not to mangle the
data that it's passed so if
it's a fine line Robbie it really is
because because you should not I'm it
the goal is you have to preserve
everything aligned whether you
understand that light on but instead of
instead of reconfiguring the card app
server or the server somewhere
since you are going to put it on your
pile something you could reconfigure the
client reconfiguring evolution to write
this is what I'm thinking vp9 I'm
thinking fork evolution and this and
create a package specifically for pine
phone well here's another problem and
that problem is that recording stuff
like in specifically anniversary in this
case yeah or or anything that's not
already defined in the in the standard
for B card is it's not clear on how you
should store that date I mean for
instance there's a date of birth that
has the specific stream right I think it
might be birthday last name first name L
n FN they're all defined in the standard
but anything outside of that is not
defined in the standard an anniversary
mate for instance would be one of those
date of death for instance would be one
of those lose the application name I
guarantee one include that application
name no that's another excellent right
that you that you write in the V card
that says the client is X evolution or
whatever it is if you are the evolution
in order to fix this and the way to do
it is to
to make the de fork to list both the
evolution and the x3 chose both so it
can use both and it doesn't care about
their sting and again specifically
events like anniversary or date of death
or whatever and not defined as to have
should be stored in a big card so that
somebody used X - anniversary just
happens to be a de facto standard they
pick it's not recorded anywhere in the
standard as far as I see so it's been
decided then we're gonna create our own
standards that is the problem you have
when you when you start messing with the
card and and Cal Bev and all that stuff
it's it's a very very fine line it's a
very wishy-washy line unfortunately so I
learned I don't know how to fix that if
I win a clone evolution and try and fix
it my I would attempt to at least make
it conform to a known standard but there
is no known standard you dare conform to
what is their de facto standard what X -
anniversary in this case right yeah mmm
or X - cap v TV - standard - evolution -
Hanover's whatever you want whatever you
want to do Robbie whatever you want to
do we'll see who will see who catches on
to that standard one of the reasons I
resisted evolution when I first started
looking at tel calendar or rather Todd
their data is precisely for that reason
that they have all their own attributes
and they write
evolution writes like half a dozen
attributes it's crazy but sort of Jewish
stuff that it that are put in the v card
all starting with X - evolution it's
nuts I don't understand it I was
checking out which email client I was
going to use Omni Linux and that I tried
and I rejected it solely because it at
least at the time there was no place to
configure that it should not under any
circumstances render HTML email so I
settled on that I came in okay okay from
the days of x11
where you predict stuff with X possible
yeah it's entirely parts
yeah I do think the standard says if you
want to write custom attributes use X -
something but it doesn't say anymore
what you know it doesn't declare any
further what that attribute should
should define but I was going to ask you
so boo do you happen to know what file
format the evolution uses when it stores
emails Thunderbird for instance uses
testing it 17 years ago so it's been a
long time for me - and I've got so many
emails like tens of thousands of emails
and that's all in K mail for you is that
correct and are they um they just
standard inbox files as well I think so
okay but I mean to me it's important
that you have some sort of a portable
standard that you can at least move from
one to the other if you decide you you
want to do that but for me it's god IMAP
but now you're relying on someone else's
exactly yep exactly you're relying on
someone else's computer to hold on to
that email and if you lose access to
that computer for whatever reason and
you've lost access to all your emails I
have a problem with that I have a
problem with that yeah save the lights I
see the lights turning on Robbie in your
head
well I used what I you just realized
what I know I'd use I'd use Thunderbird
to to pop my email and leave it on the
server and then I back up my Thunderbird
and the stuff and it's just like it's
just no I don't know
Kame Kame le it's known as camel true
even when it came I stopped using that
and it I have a virtual machine running
and because then you work a mail it has
a I have close to 300 filtering rules
yeah if I if I if I get emails from
someone I create a separate folder and I
that's all email from that person goes
into that folder and then I create a sub
for that and they're my outgoing emails
to that person goes to asset and and
then when it didn't your key and they
came in when it was a mail from the
inbox and into the folder it it it
stores two copies or the exact same
email in the folder and I can't believe
me that I used to manage my own email
server 15 years ago and I have my own
domain and I still use that email but I
migrated it to Google and Google manages
the email for my domain yeah in my area
and I'm yeah I'm not running a mail
server here but what I do is I just
popped my email from all my providers
I've got like two or three different
places that I get email my ISP is one of
them and then I also have my own domain
as well and I pull pulled my email I
popped my email from their mail server
back to me all my mail is in inboxes on
my machine right and then I just back up
the whole machine as a young as a as a
periodic um I have tried their might
closing up I think I have to try them in
their last few years by getting to
another email client because the KML
version is ten years old and I'm sure
there's some problems with it eventually
but they have HTML email now which is
really neat you should try it it's they
don't accept my filtering rules without
crashing I have is here application is
that old soul do like what what happens
with the deprecation of like TLS 1.2 no
no it is only fetching from my server
and it's my internal server and I don't
internal traffic and I'm doing you know
if you run a mail server at your house
yes okay it's an i8 because I don't
trust third party to host my email it is
that simple super secret yeah but it's
that if they did if they have a policy
about something and they discovered that
you you are storing something that they
that they don't allow they could they
could things they could delete that file
that email or they could close your
account and then you are and if you
don't have a local copy everything so
run guys like so no it's nice seeing you
it's nice to see everybody else Babu
Peter vp9 and Ron have a great afternoon
t-tomorrow it's very troubling enjoyed
it Marik
good to see you welcome yep you too take
it
