this year has been an odd one 2020
kicked off January 1st and my resolution
was to lose some weight and I've done
well lost anywhere from 40 we'll say 14
to 18 pounds so almost 20 pounds but
it's kind of like yeah it fluctuates a
few pounds here and there but I've lost
some weight that's my new year's
resolution you remember that at Studio D
I purchased a new scale a smart scale to
help me to be able to keep track of that
weight loss process and and my progress
and it's been cool to see the graph and
those of you who picked up one of those
scales know that it is really really
neat to be able to pull out your smart
phone and see the trends and see and
it's like a challenge for yourself a bit
of an encouragement just to know the
numbers I think has been really really
helpful for me that's how the year
started off so hey one good thing came
out of 2020 so far and then we found out
that we had to move category 5
technology TV at the end of February so
that was not too far into the year at
all made the announcement and we held a
Kickstarter campaign which was
successful and I thank you so very much
for your support and we had to move at
the end of March but as you know of
course this whole pandemic thing kind of
took off mid March so here in Canada it
was it was a couple weeks into March
when things really started getting
serious and so we moved everything in as
best we could but I couldn't have my
team here really helping to unpack or
get things set up and so it's been that
kind of struggle to get to the point
where we're up and running at full
capacity and we're not there yet
I can't wait until Henry Bailey Brown
can be here in the studio with me
probably like on another camera over in
the far corner but he'll be here
Jeff Weston will be here Sascha Rickman
has had to move across the country to
Newfoundland
but she'll be here in some way or
another and one of the cool ways that
Sasha
has been able to participate in our
community even through this time and how
some of our community has been able to
keep in contact and and kind of keep up
to date with what one another are up to
is through a program that we host called
coffee break and our category five
community coffee break is held in
general once a week we do have the
occasional exception including this week
because I am gonna take my wife and kids
away for the weekend and I'm really
looking forward to a little bit of
downtime I think we all need a little
bit of respite every now and again and
this week it's it's time for for me to
get the kids out of the house and and
and go somewhere and just kind of relax
and spend some time together to just
playing board games and things like that
having campfires really really looking
forward to that and tis the season we
can't do everything that we normally do
we can't go windows well we can go
window-shopping we can't go you know
taking the kids into all the stores that
we normally would up in cottage country
and all that kind of stuff and can't do
our grocery shops the same way that we
used to what a world hey I posted on
Twitter this morning with my mask on at
work but who knew when 2020 started that
I'd be a a ninja or at least I'd looked
that way but so with the rare occasion
where we're not actually holding one
typically it is once a week that we hold
the community coffee break and the whole
purpose behind that and I'm talking
about you know this is all that's been
going on and I know that everybody has
been affected differently throughout the
pandemic but the coffee break was set up
specifically to give us a place to go
just like I'm going away to the cottage
this weekend it's a place for you our
community the category five TV
coffee break is a place for us to all
get together and just go just get away
from it all just have some respite some
time to hang out with the community
members and just be ourselves have fun
chat about random things the technology
that has us excited this week and not
talk about the things that are bringing
us down that's the category five
community coffee break and let's take a
quick look at some of the many
highlights of the category five
community coffee break and I'd encourage
you as you watch these clips to check in
and and visit the category five
community coffee break by going to our
website category five TV is category
five dot TV and when you're there scroll
down on the homepage and you'll see the
schedule for the coffee break and I'd
encourage you to be a part of that it's
a very small tight-knit group right now
and I know that our community is much
much larger than what's represented in
the coffee break and that's part of what
I wanted to show you because baby maybe
you don't know that you can join it too
and I'd love to have you as a part of it
so let's take a look at some of the some
of the highlights there have been wow I
think it's like sixty three coffee
breaks so far Wow
right so among those are some gems and
some where we just sat around just I
just hanging out but among those I've
pulled some clips just to show you a
little bit about what goes on on the
coffee break so here you are
[Music]
a really cool thing about the pine phone
is that it is completely popular you
know as much as most phones can be it's
got a removable battery oh that's a
standard sampling j7 battery so you can
get them really easily even though this
one's branded or it's just a standard
battery this is the the module that does
the Wi-Fi Bluetooth and oh no what
timing Wi-Fi bluetooth ends what no I'm
glad it wasn't just me you dropped out
there Bo
you said this is a Wi-Fi Bluetooth and
GSM so that's a it's a quick tell module
so this actually runs stripped-down
version of Linux on it so that's that's
the only mm-hmm
closed part of the entire phone is that
here is this like Mark Shuttleworth so
dream coming to light you know in a lot
of ways let's see if I can get close up
here canonical I really wanted to do the
aboon two phone right and this is this
is a linear I own folks so you can I
don't know if you can see it but these
are dip switches right here so these
nice yeah those are our hardware disable
switches for different things this
little white label next to it tells you
what they are
it's modem Wi-Fi Bluetooth microphone
rear camera front camera and headphone
that's what you can turn off do you sell
those at Ameritrade we will be as soon
as that are available and this right
here is our pogo pins these are I
squared C interface to the phone oh wow
so people can make a you know like
keyboard cases or extended batteries or
anything that does I squared C
and this is like how much is a is a pine
phone remind me both it'll be less than
$200 and so here here's Manjaro running
so it's not running Android it's running
down Linux it's running the next yeah
let's see I'm trying to do this
backwards oh yes so anyway I'm not sure
exactly what I'm doing because you saw
actually yeah I want one even more now
that I was planning to show you
yesterday but I didn't find it
and this morning I remembered oh I have
one box tucked away in another look
inside Zella
I thought it was a game and watch oh my
goodness Liam come see this can you make
a noise for me Oh an actual game and
watch yeah um free Nintendo so that was
what created the Nintendo yeah it's from
1988 85 I've had it I've had this one
for you and I understand like if that
didn't happen if that guy wasn't such a
pushy salesman it Nintendo might not
have happened
wow that's awesome that's universal but
it's for the foot foot for today
oh I know that was pre well they might
say Nintendo on it does it yeah yeah it
does Oakley yeah because they were there
two vendors and I don't know the clone
of there and
Nintendo and that I used to have one of
the clones and I had one it was breaking
breaking out of prison it was a
searchlight to going all around and you
have to avoid the searchlight and you
had to avoid to God runs and then you
had to go 4-2 to their friends and the
first one had to knock a hole in the
fence and then escape and yeah I think I
had my all-time high was almost five
five five hundred points and I did that
and I mean closing they're passing four
hundred points their searchlight was
really going fast I had that for three
or four years and then we moved and I
haven't seen it since if I recall
correctly I think Game and Watch was a
device out of Japan that intended they
didn't create Nintendo already existed
but Nintendo would have folded if game
and watched the guy who was selling Game
and Watch came to them and said please
carry this
so they slot their name on it and it
became a Nintendo product and made
Nintendo but what they became I guess
timing okay so whoever said think
convert to a watch does it have a clock
at least there you go we can't we can't
see what you're working on because your
mic isn't on see this yeah this is my
gaming system ice case this is a little
one this I built three of these this is
the little one there's a medium sized
one that I built because my nephew's
were fighting over the fact there's only
one controller on this thing and then
there is the full-sized arcade cabinet
that I built for a friend after they saw
the other two sweet
Liam wants to show you guys his retro
gaming console that's the act games this
is the Sega Genesis do you want to put
on like Sonic show them how cool it yeah
it's got like 2,000 games on it I was
hoping to get one of those new Oh droids
but I gather its back borders to the
camera oh he's got Sonic running free
you guys copyright infringement right
here bro boy you guys see that yeah it's
really hard to see on camera yeah it's
actually these things are awesome that's
nice
those things are awesome it takes an SD
card so you can pop a rom on it it will
hey guess what happened this morning
guys you'll never go well yeah I got to
work where I am now and maybe 10 minutes
later 15 minutes after I got here I got
a phone call from our alarm company that
our alarm was going off at the new
studio I was gonna say the alarm went
off feeling it was something like that I
was gonna I was gonna say it jokingly
but yeah so I my initial thought was oh
okay well there must be a false alarm
like you know we just had it installed
on Saturday right so sometimes there's
some kinks to work out so I emailed the
alarm company and asked them to send me
a copy of the manual so I can reprogram
the terminal thing just in case it was a
false alarm and I and I went there and
everything was fine so I called off the
police and told them we didn't need
anyone because it was a false alarm and
then I went back over my surveillance
footage just on a whim and sure enough
837 this morning my door opens wide and
the guy walks in looks around
looks around and then the alarm starts
going off and then he quickly gets out
and how did he get in exactly so that
was my thought so I'm sitting there
watching the surveillance video and I'm
and I can't see his face I can't see any
because I haven't set up the
surveillance yet so it was this the
camera in the in the office happen to be
pointed toward the door so I saw the
door open that guy walk in you see kinda
his right side and he's looking around
and then he and the alarm goes off right
so as I'm watching this footage I hear
somebody rustling on my door so I jump
and I run to the the door of the studio
and I whip it open and I say you can't
come in here
remember I've just walked into
surveillance and I see this guy turns
out he's one of the maintenance workers
at the condo and he didn't when when
they leased out our unit they didn't
mark us as as a leased unit they had
because they're stored staffed right
because of the copán 19 they've been
closer
so we're moved in we've got our alarm
setup but they didn't mark it as as not
vacant so they thought it was empty he
thought it was empty and he's going
around for me all of the empty units
he's got a clipboard of all the empty
units and they do an inspection at the
beginning of every month
I guess presumably to prepare them for
you know that months you know trying to
rent it out but so he had walked right
in he had a key obviously he just walked
right in set off the alarm and he's just
freaking out and of course my his first
impression of me is me yank in the door
oh I had no idea who you were or what
you were doing all I know is that the
police are here my alarm went off this
morning I got a call the alarm company
and get them to reset the code and yeah
so that's how my day started Wow and
that happened this morning happened this
morning at least mail I got a voice
snail from the property management
company all apologetic and they're going
on about how you know it'll never happen
again we mark we're so sorry
I'm really hoping I don't get a bill for
a false alarm a good point because if
the police get cold lay out they'll uh
they'll charge it for that and you want
to know what's neat is that I got there
within ten minutes in the palm roughly
there oh yeah oh yeah they were miss
around with that stuff yeah I poured
myself a coffee in this particular mug
as a reminder to let you know that
Andrew Andrew Lloyd Webber is
broadcasting the 25th anniversary stage
production of the musical on YouTube
this weekend so it's a limited time
thing it's for 48 hours I think in the
UK and 72 hours in the rest of the world
I believe because of copyright so I
posted the link to that under I think I
forget what the videos channel is on
discord I think it's called like
interesting videos well you know on
discord if you click on there it's the
last video that I posted but it is
limited it's only this weekend if you
want to see the stage production which i
think is cool because growing up being
such a fan of the Phantom of the Opera
as a child having seen that Pantages
Theatre when I was in grade 6 and then
like following the musical four years
after that I always wanted to have a
recording of the the actual stage
production rather than the movie the
movie came out and that was something
but it wasn't as good so it's nice to
see a proper produced staged version of
the show so that yeah probably cool I
went to see it in a smaller theater so
it was a little suggested cause it would
have been in one of the larger theaters
and I did get the original CD of the
original tossed with but not original
Canadian or
UK this was a UK I believe okay yeah I
can't remember I can't remember his name
I would as soon as I as soon as I hear
it
I know here no that wasn't the right one
no call from Ireland was was the Phantom
here in Canada okay
talking a bit and I'm trying to find the
CD and I don't I just don't see it oh I
want to say Kevin or Brian or so but
it's like I can't think of it maybe I'll
switch around my camera and I can like
give you a little bit of a walkthrough
of what if I can okay so let's see I'm
really new it doesn't really do the Wow
okay here we so have you ever taken
carpet adhesive off of floor board it's
very difficult
yeah I've been using that's iron on
Steam and just steaming the bejeebies
out of that if I go to the other side of
the Attic obviously there's still like
lots of work that needs to be done up
here my cat5 office is it insulated
don't mean what's it gonna be like in
the middle of summer
that'll be hot that's really stinking
hot right now no insulation in there
after none at all
yeah we're gonna have to ensure like
that whole area there so sure for that
to be viable yeah that is my washing
machine I this should be my office down
here yes you really need to make this
part of your part of this your office
it's far more suitable yeah I mean
they're real it is it will be a little
bit cooler yeah
thirty-two degrees plus some yes what I
think we've decided on is making a
cluster of independent so a cluster as
in multiple devices but independent as
in each one will have its own distro
raspberry pi unit that will each have
the raspberry pi OS and zoom install and
each one of those has an HDMI output so
then each Raspberry Pi becomes a camera
source essentially for zoom so I'd have
one Raspberry Pi dedicated to Jeff and
that would be HDMI out into his capture
and then when I push the button on the
on the stream deck it would switch to
his camera basically and then have one
for sasha and one for Henry and however
we want to set it up so it's just like
one Raspberry Pi per person it might
work
so that's kind of where I'm sorry I
think I missed what it is you were
meaning to do with that raspberry pod
being able to have it have them come in
remotely through zoom ah I see okay
because for the show we obviously don't
want this grid layout and we can't have
it so that it's switching back and forth
every time someone speaks and okay no
you need a separate input for each of
them so you can edit them post as
Latricia any way you want even and even
live we need to be able to switch to the
person who's speaking manually and I and
and people may not realize but zoom
cannot be running on the broadcast
system because it's broadcasting so that
means the good camera that I use is out
of it basically is so during the
interview or during the conversation I
would be on my phone which would Bend
you've done you've done this before
though was I recall because you you did
the same thing I live oh good point yeah
Wednesday we found that out when my pine
book probe would not work for the
feature and then so then signed off
rebooted
changed the way I connected things I
plugged the I plugged the Atomos ninja
flame into the pine Book Pro and pushed
the cord mm-hmm worked flawlessly so
some and if not a half a dozen Raspberry
Pi for eight gigs yeah exactly so well I
think four would do it because four is
as many inputs as I have that oh yeah so
then we just basically that would allow
us to treat each person on their Zune
connection as a as a camera source so I
think that could work
and it's probably a pretty good way to
do it on the cheap on the cheap it's
going to cost like you know four
raspberry pies here in Canada is like
600 bucks
so you know what selectee dollars
American run Robert said to me because
Robert in Florida right he's like oh
yeah Raspberry Pi it's only 75 bucks for
the new one really one hundred and ten
dollars here just for the board plus you
gotta buy the power supply plus you
gotta buy the case I'm not even sure I'd
use a rough spot for that anymore I
probably you've already already been
talking about the owner you've already
been talking about the Odroid what was
it C for I believe yeah I don't know I
haven't looked yet I don't know if
they're any cheaper and they get hit up
a mirror droid will soon see what
they've got my top light my problem is
yeah I really don't like and much menu
you've seen this too right
you've seen where the Raspberry Pi if it
loses power potentially that SD card
yeah it's corrupted you can't afford
that especially especially not live so
you know maybe maybe wants an option I
don't know what the price point is
though so maybe maybe just a bunch of a
few fours with with emmc Little Debbie
and this with the desktop yeah I like I
like what you're thinking and it's got
HDMI I was strictly thinking you know I
I just need a sec with
HDMI output but you're right it doesn't
have to be Raspberry Pi no you need for
it to work especially when you're alive
you can't afford to be having it break
down unexpectedly not just not to say
that they will but if you lose power all
of a sudden then but if you know why our
and the SD card corrupting is the least
of your problems if my UPS is so weak it
can't power for raspberry PI's I'm in
trouble because that are 510 is going
there we've got a Retina beeping at ups
don't you I do yeah I gotta get new
batteries and that thing well it's a
good point yeah I threw it out there in
case it would be you know yeah as a
peasant option so yeah I like that idea
Xu fours or the new C for any of those
would probably do just fine it's really
just plugging them in and then seeing
how they how they operate with doing
holes green it's been so much fun
getting to know certain members of our
community and I'd encourage you to
become a part of our community coffee
break as well just a great usually
weekly place that you can come together
on a zoom meeting and be a part of our
community in that way so I'd encourage
you to check it out category 5 TV just
scroll up the scroll down on the home
page and you'll find the schedule there
the past videos everything else and if
you have any questions join our discord
and that is found by clicking on
interact and then you'll see join our
discord server there at category 5 dot
