covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias Facebook has launched a new
chat bot that it claims is able to
demonstrate empathy knowledge and
personality their chat bot which they've
annoyingly named blender was trained
using available public domain
conversations which included 1.5 billion
examples of human exchanges but experts
say training the artificial intelligence
using a platform such as reddit has its
drawbacks numerous issues arose during
longer conversations blender would
sometimes respond with offensive
language and at other times it would
make up facts altogether researchers
said they hoped further models would
address some of these issues
artificial intelligence expert Dave
Chopin said that blender was a step in
the right direction but noted two
fundamental issues that still need to be
overcome he told the BBC the first is
just how complex it is to replicate all
of the nuances of a human attribute like
the ability to hold a conversation a sip
a skill that most three-year-olds can
master the second is around the
relationship with the data used to train
the model and the results generated by
the model it goes on to explain as great
a platform as Retta is training
algorithms based on the conversations
you find there is going to get you a lot
of chaff amongst the wheat Facebook also
compared blenders performance with the
latest version of Google's own chat BOTS
Mina it showed people two sets of
conversations one made with blender and
the other with Mina conversations
included a wide range of topics
including movies music and veganism
Facebook said the 67% of respondents
through blender sounded more human than
Mina the researchers noted we achieved
this milestone through a new chat bot
recipe that includes improved decoding
techniques novel blending of skills and
a model with nine point four billion
parameters which is three point six
times more than the largest existing
system building a truly intelligent
dialogue agent that can chat like a
human remains one of the largest open
challenges in AI today
[Music]
