welcome to category five technology TV
this week it's all about the Orval
they're gonna be shooting season three
in just a couple of weeks time and I
want you to learn all about it but I
don't want you to learn it from us we're
gonna give it to you firsthand as we
have a zoom meeting with the Orval
backstage stick around our live
recordings are trusted only to Sol the
state drives by Kingston Technology
revive your computer with improved
performance and reliability over
traditional hard drives with Kingston
SSDs category 5 TV streams live with
Telestream wire cast and nimble streamer
tune in every week on roku cody and
other HLS video players for local show
times visit category 5 TV category 5 TV
is a member of the tech podcast network
if it's tech it's here cat 5 TV slash
TPM and the International Association of
internet broadcasters cat 5 dot TV slash
ia IB
welcome to the show everybody before we
jump into it make sure you subscribe to
us on youtube and also click on that
bell so that you get notifications every
time we post a new and shiny video now I
want to give you a heads up if you
haven't seen the first two seasons of
the Orval there may be spoilers this
week right there
however if you've watched the first two
seasons of the Orval please help me to
welcome the Orville's editor and
associate producer tom costantino along
with visual effects producer brooke
nasca welcome to the show you too well
fantastic story supervisor too because
she's an ad
so this brings me like things are
changing right now with the show because
you're just about to begin filming
season 3 so maybe for myself just to
kind of refresh where things are at as
far as your positions go can you
introduce yourselves individually and
what it is that you do at the Orval so
no I'm not talking job I'm not talking
just job titles I want to know like what
do you actually do behind the scenes
sure yeah the producer on the show I'm
kind of the cat Wrangler you know that's
a professional term of it and you know
basically the visual effects is such an
inclusive department we're part of
pre-production or production
post-production and getting it out the
door so we're kind of the only
department that has our hands fingers
and toes and every single part of it
coupled up with the editorial in post
apartment so because we're such a huge
show we're set in space spoiler we don't
shoot there we have to make sure that
everybody is all on the same page on
what we need to shoot what it would look
like smell like feel like and that that
carries all the way from start to finish
and so I get to make sure that it looks
like that it feels like that and it
costs like that with rain and SIA and
our other new co supervisor Aaron Hayden
I kind of just help make sure that
everything that is included in this
season is also being achieved creatively
so that we can kind of take a little bit
off of their plate so that branding can
focus on the previz you can focus on set
brain or Eric can focus on set and with
our internal team and that I can focus
more and making sure that everything's
prepped for Seth with those guys's help
and getting it out the door and you guys
need a super awesome
awesome show yeah and Tom your supp yeah
well I started as an editor on the pilot
I've been here I'm old school I've been
here since day one so my role now is
that I'm supervising editor and
co-producer so I'm gonna have three
editors and three assistants under me
I'm in charge of all picture editorial
make
sure you know I'll have my ends and
stuff cutting picture making sure things
go well with second units my co-producer
of stuff in comes a lot of things it
helps out marketing I'm usually in
charge of comic-con and various other
things that we need around here there's
just a lot to do it's a big big show so
I'm sort of like the catch-all and I
hope and happen to be the resident
fanboy of Star Trek and all things Star
Trek and you know in sci-fi in general
so I'm sort of the go-to for for the
inside track on that so that's that's me
in a nutshell but and we're can behind
the scenes that's such a big show as the
Orval like what is the workload like are
you guys like do you get enough downtime
that you're keeping your sanity is it is
it like what does it feel like to be
working at the Orval I mean I think we
are kind of fuels our passion it's just
being insane all the time and yeah I
mean we we know what it's like to be on
a show like this especially since we've
done it for the last two seasons so you
know stepping it up even another notch
in season three we're ready for it were
juiced and that's kind of why we signed
on because we can't get enough it's an
ambitious show so if you're looking for
a nine-to-five job this is the place for
you and we're okay with that I mean it
takes a lot to put people for lack of a
better word in space doing epic things
and you know everybody's here because
they want to be here so yeah it's you
know it's a labor of love
and there's not a lot of shows like us
out there so when you finally do get on
one that people actually like it's kind
of cool kind of want to stick around
yeah so I want to get into the tech
because category-five technology TV is a
tech broadcast and so I want to kind of
you know have that discussion and one of
the things like we we think about way
back in the day and I think you know
Star Trek The Next Generation I'm a big
fan boy Tom and so back then as a fan of
Star Trek there was no social media
there was no capability for me as a fan
to
to even let the producers of the show
know that that I was loving what they
were doing technology has changed a lot
since then so how has kind of the advent
of of social media in particular how has
that made it different for you as
producers of the show just being able to
communicate with your fans well you know
having that kind of interactivity it's
98% of blessing it's 2% of curse yeah
we get almost real-time feedback about
how people feel about the show right so
so that's kind of an amazing thing I
mean I'm not gonna lie there were
probably a couple things will be tweaked
last year based on some information we
got you know if it's like the general
trend from posts or about something will
occasionally look at that ourselves and
maybe change part of the script or
reshoot something small I mean we don't
we don't see change scripts and things
but are you able to are you able to come
up with an example of such a scenario
yeah I mean I mean for telling tales out
of school the a/v Club who is very if
they become real fans of ours we love
their reading they they made it
offhanded comments about the Kalon
outfits and you know next thing you know
we were we were you know amping up some
battle stuff even though they meant it
as a compliment it's like you know all
right all right we say it's a little
kitschy we can fix that we can make them
more horrifying yeah so some stuff for
13 4 to 13 the UH finale we we we didn't
pickups I mean that's that's the short
of it but it's it's more just like a
generalized sense of okay this is how
the fans are feeling this is what they
appreciate about us you know we we are
here for them so you know we would like
to you know we like to like know what
they are thinking and it feels from a
fan perspective it really feels like the
evolution of of being able to be
entertained because we're interacting
with the very creators of the show so
it's it's a really interesting we're
going to repair time
yeah absolutely online so exactly so so
thinking of the social media piece is
there any particular type of interaction
that that you behind the scenes or even
the cast and the crew of the show that
you really love to receive I mean before
about how like once again we're so
excited about the work that we finally
get to like release to you guys yeah so
it was always exciting when we would
turn it on when it was all you know
Thursday nights we turn it on and we
would all of you would be more glued to
the Twitter live no like it's we're like
we're feeling it with you guys because
we've watched it we've watched it
without any visual effects they wash it
with visual effects we wash it without
color or wisp or without like we've seen
it probably a hundred times one time you
guys have seen it so in order to get
that like one more fresh eye and
somebody will I mean we do a really
really good job to make sure we don't
leave any cups in there but but we
really like to a make sure that what
we've been seeing and enjoying and
pitching and you know seeing through is
exactly what everybody else is excited
about and having the reactions that
we're attending to have so yeah it's
really awesome to get that live that
life feedback from the fans whether it
be good bad ugly or otherwise I mean
usually looking fairness we're working
you know we don't wait we go to the wire
sometimes just because the massive
amount of the show so yeah it's 15 of us
out bright outside here scrolling
through our phones something that we
glossed over I didn't think would play
that they someone loves or it's like
something we thought would be like the
biggest point you know the biggest coin
just glows like yeah
so do you gotta like you gotta stop
yourself from being like guys did you
notice that particular thing
there's one thing I kind of like I snuck
in there was during the episode when
they find the iPhone we never like got a
time on like what time it was supposed
to me sounds like make it 143 that'll be
my I love you to the audience oh there
it is I snuck that in I love you guys
now everyone's you realize everybody's
gonna be looking for it now so there's a
recurring cast of Internet characters
that we I mean it's it's pretty vast but
you know there's probably 500 or a
thousand recurring superfans maybe even
more that we all try to interact with
and yet they all have their own
personalities their own interests and
that that is probably the best part of
the job because whenever I'm not feeling
so great about the gig good good man and
you guys you're you're all doing such a
wonderful job and as a viewer of the
show you know we we've just been loving
all of the work that you've been doing
we'll talk we'll talk a little bit more
about about the fandom piece in just a
couple of months time but I want to
touch on the technology that you're
actually using in the set area of the
show so how has for example robotics or
digital technology really changed the
production process and kind of the
behind the scenes for a production like
the Orval well we we do a lot of work
with shotgun so that we can track you
know we produced over 7,000 shots last
season that you guys saw but there was
22,000 that went through the pipeline
that's like the biggest television show
how many cameras are you stimulus
stimuli shooting with we're shooting I
will shoot with the standard you know
three maybe four yeah you drone unit
maybe a special you know a technic rain
situation but in order to get all the
data that we need you know from those
cameras
Dadda the camera data you know the
measurements and all that that's all
been more or less digital digitized
which you know even just helps the
throughput of what we need from the set
yeah um and just having you know again
just having the access to you know we
all have iPhones so we use we share
notes of like hey by the way we shot off
set this day hey I got it we'll let
people know or you know if I'm in
Mammoth and Brandon's here in LA and you
know somebody else is at home sick like
we can all still progress the day
without missing a beat because honestly
television has no time for the weary
city you know something else that's
something that like even like five years
ago was like a huge pain but no we
didn't episode last year where there
were two agents there were two Kelley's
basically you got to do some positing Oh
Donna same job yeah but we're not we're
not a look we're not a Marvel movie and
some of this stuff is you know we have
to do some old-fashioned trickery but
literally literally we I was I took my
Abbott over there who plugged we plugged
our hard drive into the the video feed
bed of the the video tab for lack of a
better word I pulled out some quick
times and I was cutting on set to make
sure stuff was actually working in real
time and then also Brandon - to
double-check his compositing was also
doing the same thing and literally
compositing on set in the laptop so we
could get some real-time feedback it's a
little jerry-rigged but it's like trying
to do that five years ago would have
been impossible yeah it really brings me
to the digital point like digital has
completely revolutionized the process
from a post production standpoint you
mentioned if people are off sick and
everything you're able to still
collaborate through phones and
everything are you using any kind of
telepresence in order to be able to do
remote editing and things like that it's
more you know we'll use the given you
know file sharing systems okay you know
I mean even just like trying to send
something that says like we said we we
get it together we send it to him to his
phones that you something like you know
Lowell will make sure that what he's
using what he's seeing is
accessible to him also so I don't know
it's we did it we did a little bit of
work with you know the system ever cast
yeah it's a it's a remote editing system
the thing is is that because I say this
with love and with with ultimate raishin
set is so fast
he literally sees fields I've said this
before he can hear fields and see fields
because of his animation background and
also he's a freaking genius that the
ever cast system had to delay so we can
only use it for more macro based stuff
you know so we actually to do stuff in
the room but we could edit from
thousands of miles away using the the
ever cast system with my Abbott
basically up on somebody's phone Wow
incredible
same thing with Skype too we can do we
share screens and somebody was able to
me yeah but we did have a setup where
you know if a director or somebody
wasn't able to make it they would be
able to you know tap into the system be
there and talk back to you know the
composer talk back to everybody that
needs to be involved so yeah I mean we
have definitely tested a lot of things
because we are moving at such a
breakneck speed yeah but it's also been
such like a crazy adventure to be able
to say hey we can do this like right
features are doing it why can't we
cheering look and fairness is you know
the scoring stage you can't see where
I'm pointing but it's a lot and Fox lot
is big that's not the biggest lot but
you know that's six minutes for getting
the scoring stage back to stage 15 we do
that four times in a day you lost a half
hour a half hour times every week is is
a quantum a quantitative go large large
everything adds up
and as we're gearing up for season three
I do want to hear more about the
turnaround process we do have to take a
really quick break though we're speaking
with Tom costantino as well as Brook
nasca they are from the Orville and when
we get back just looking at my notes
what we want to cover we're going to
talk about how real-world tech is
actually impacting the production of the
Orville and the actual on-air stuff as
well we're going to
more about season 3 of the orville and
how you can win the actual jar of
pickles from the Orville set stick
around thank you for the Twitter feed
[Music]
we're over at the Oriole experience
downtown San Diego
[Applause]
come fly with me on the Orville let's
fly away if you can use some swaying
fools half a day drink with Eddie tell a
come by the or the let's fly let's fly
away
what's the Orville
verified we'll watch some dry
absolutely
would you rather have captain Mercer the
baton part or fistfight
the or build season three and 2020 on
Hulu bone alright you can win the actual
jar of pickles from the set of season 2
episode of home of the Orville it's been
personally autographed by the show's
executive producer director Jon Cassar
and you can find out how you can get
that how you can participate in that
contest
we've got a hotlink for u cap 5 dot TV
oh look at what he's got it's getting
there so we can see you now yeah cat 5
I've got it cap 5 dot TV slash pickles
and that will take you that will take
Mantor yeah so so are they real pickles
or are they probably are unfortunately
real pickles and well I have a captive
audience please don't eat them and then
sue us this is not in there for a year
if you haven't seen the episode yet
season two's home make sure you check it
out and and participate in that contest
cat 5 TV slash pickles the contest is
open until Saturday the 12th and
including that date is there any
interesting tech Tom or Brooke that
you've seen kicking around the the set
that that is perhaps consumer gear or
stuff that that that makers are
interested in I think about like do you
ever use Arduino Zoar do you know
anything about what's being used there
on the set I need I have really got to
with ton of awesome features even like
the latest you know they have a
basically a quad split feature so we do
a lot will do a lot of previz will will
actually just take our phones and we'll
just you know stage out something we'll
edit together in like an iMovie on our
phones send it and you know that's how
we kind of do a little bit of
visualization of pre-production but yeah
I think the most handy consumer product
is if you have a phone and it's a smart
phone even if any
look even unfairness some of our door
panels are actually either there iPad
minis only actually interact with live
it's a little program that lights up now
sometimes what hands would be effects
but we have been known to sneak an eye
an iPad or an iPad Mini or a phone into
a prop and let it just do its thing with
graphics so I'd love to see that added
to the App Store I'm sure we can work
that out for you now this this being
your job I mean it's really really easy
for us going to work every day and you
guys work long hours to look at the the
stuff that comes in that's and we're
thinking again about the tech that is
really exceptional but it's easy to just
kind of oh it's old hat because you deal
with it every single day but is there
anything that through the course of the
first two seasons of the show or even
now as you're gearing up to shoot season
three is there any gear that has just
made you go like wow like this is
mind-bending that I am a part of this
because of this technology no saying
iPhone yeah I think it's just it's
really just you know all the different
apps and tools that you can use on an
Apple product is like unbelievable she
went there do we do we do have we do I
mean I'm not going to say there is a
revolutionary a priori thing that's
going to help us
you know invented by people here
hopefully patented I believe abundant
we're gonna find that that's gonna
that's gonna revolutionize how we shoot
some of the more complex scenes I don't
want to say anything more about it
literally a bending but they're you know
we do this again in the year yeah well
bran will bring on those people and let
them talk about it but it but because
we're moving so fast to have the ability
to sort of for lack of a better word
live lives live you know just be able to
do things more organically is pretty
pretty wild but um you know we use
drones for all the time for a lot of our
no I haven't shot a single wide wide
master shot that hasn't been used with a
drone what other choice B we have I mean
a lot at luck but a lot of our I think
we're different is a lot of our toys
come from Brooks magic so it's you know
we have a huge set over there that of
course is also right now all NDA because
of what's going on but yeah but a lot of
our sets are large and and real so you
know we're kind of old-school Hollywood
and there's some of that in that way
yeah the foo and the chat is wondering
if you have anything that uses Linux
that helps you with your production
chain that's cool so that's that's a
question hey think about the fact that
our community would love to know that so
if you ever hear about that then just
know hey ping Robby a category-5 because
we'd love to let our viewers know okay
no I mean we're mostly pretty much yeah
I don't get a check for saying that but
we are we're a Mac Mac family mm-hm
logo running behind me is running off my
have it off Mac how we go yeah it's good
good to have everything kind of
interconnected as well thinking back to
how things were shot 20 years ago and
thinking about how models were used in
particular yes are you folks still using
models even though Brooke and her team
are like doing some incredible stuff
with VFX you know it's always the homage
was to you you know we we did we shot
the model the first season and then as
we have grown we've kind of you know put
a couple extra scrapes and dents into
that sexy model but we don't want to put
it into the actual model so we've taken
those mocap that mocap information and
we've updated the actual modeled so that
it blends in with that season so it's
not like oh wait this is from
season but we just you know mmm we loved
it so much we don't want to replace the
ship so we still use the technique as if
it was model shooting but it is a lot of
digital right and you're talking mocap
aka motion capture so you're bringing an
actual physical model into a virtual
world is that the idea yes
so the whole paradigm of how to shoot
these has been flipped on its head yeah
I remember old days the old cranes that
had to go into it so how are you
shooting it like are you putting it on a
stage and just taking shots or all kinds
through over through the model and then
we put that data into you know our nuke
scripts or anything and tracked on and
put you know stars in the background or
whatever planets and stuff just so that
it had that real camera feel so that you
felt like you know that camera is in
space and it's looking at that ship and
then as we progressed through season 2
in season 3 we've kind of lost the
actually shoot it on set but we haven't
lost me through the feel and the you
know technique of actually like okay so
we're going you know over under around
the ship you still want to feel like
real tight ship is in space and you guys
this hat would be on the fly that's
check it out we really try not to do
anything that that a real live camera
couldn't capture in some way even if
it's somebody in a fake spaceship
following along with our real spaceship
yeah because that's the minute you lose
all sense of reality but we could
there's no way in hell that this baby
behind us we can put it to those kind of
contortions and or some of the more
stuff we've gotten more ambitious more
complicated in our in our sequences so
we've literally break the model no not
I'm not even being figurative we
literally break yeah I just have a
real-world scale so it is you know
hundreds of feet wide high you know so
we do have those dimensions so when it
is flying in battle we're not you know
it's not like a feather in space like
we're actually like okay this thing is
you know 80 million tons
how would it actually go through space
how does that kind of work obviously
like there's not a real fired space my
NASA friends are telling me that that so
it's not real but we are still trying to
make it feel and you know have it depict
what it might look like as far as we
know what that kind of stuff looks like
now I know we're working in tight
quarters tonight how much work would it
be for you to show us the model Tom vo -
moving this wonderful tribe so here we
are in Tom's office at at the Fox lot
[Laughter]
this is the this is the model folks that
that they used at the Orville I can flop
the camera it's not genuine area those
are the actual model folks that was said
that was used to shoot those kids know
what is it made of
it's made of wrestling hopes dreams
tears no it's a resin it was partially
3d printed supposed to be touching with
the gloves so I'm going to do that here
on here a few those who know that term
yeah give us in there Tom I want to see
details I want to see details that we'd
never see before look at that so you see
yeah the players focus little hard for
me to see pretty good pretty good so but
but there's some there's some amazing
detail on this now granted we're making
the model way more detailed you know as
time as the digital model get yes more
and more sorry
never seen a lot of phone here we're
seeing a lot of white eggs
I phoned my iPhone 11 not making things
easy use one of the other three cameras
yeah right so is this the model you said
that has been dinged and broken and like
where are those brakes because this
looks perfect looks pristine I will show
you some since you guys are very so see
this right here yes okay so because it
is 3d printed because yeah you know it's
a very sensitive thing and it's been on
display before so this over here there's
actually the it's bent a little bit so
we keep it in a very special case here
to keep it supported obviously we can
glue this back down and hold it but you
know it's it's it's it's a it's an
aerodynamic shape and it eventually it's
it's gonna you know it's gonna
deteriorate so we try and keep it you
know Christine as much as possible now
because it's more of an artifact of the
show than an actual working model right
right there's amazing you know it's it's
did this for us it was a beautiful work
yeah that's amazing I mean I posted
photos of it before yeah look at some
close-ups even though we've never seen
this is the bottom but you know the
light you know abs you have the working
quantum rings and all these other stuff
and it's probably hard to see but
there's actually this so much for my
great filming but there's a there's a
you can see I'm sorry hang on one sec
yeah it's all good it's it's worth it on
yeah isn't it fun okay and just another
example of what we could hang on so so
you know this is actually yeah there we
go thanks burger so if you can look here
I'll let you on the phone and not
alright so this is if you knew how
complicated this was okay now you get a
better look right wow there's actually a
little shuttle in there which is hard to
see but you lower the camera four
degrees lower the camera a bit for us we
weren't quite seeing it if we can just
see right into the shuttle bay so I am
contorting here to get down and yes
can you see it no I see a lot of foam or
underneath the ship now yeah we're under
it it's filled with foam but it's
beautiful they put the home but see that
but see the same painting down here
that's the same yes yes our actual real
live stage so yeah Jenna Scourge a the
foam is put in there recently just to
protect we can pull it out but I kind of
don't want to mess with ya mess with it
so yeah oh that's the way that is oh
thank you for showing us I have scale
that's it you know
yeah it's about four feet that's awesome
now I have a question about the design
of the ship yeah because I mean when my
wife and I have watched the show we
wondered why the three fins at the back
was that anything in particular
or was that just for a cool design I
think it was partially cool design but
also you know Andre harmonics he's our
resident tech supervisor and he you know
a lot of this stuff is based on
scientific fact so so so a lot of the
quantum the quantum rings and quantum
energy all this is based in in in in
future scientific concepts so I don't
know if the 3-ring aspect was for
strictly for fashion or design but it
was but the whole idea of the quantum
quantum energy is based in real science
okay
because I know I think one of the
episodes when I believe it was the
replacement for a Lara when the new
security officer was transitioning the
ship that was beside had only two rings
yeah I mean honestly you know we do it's
a little bit of license you know like
that's what I'm saying is that the three
rings it's really more just because it's
kind of a better word TV sexy it was
related to like a smart or the vessel
versus science that's all or something
like that yeah so the different the
different shapes and rings they kind of
they kind of represent the different
union classes that we have we have a
Leviathan class in the science class we
had two cruiser class so they all have a
different look feel but you kind of want
them all to look like something of the
Union or
you know the show so that we can kind of
make sure that when you're in you know
of the Jillian ship explosion battle and
you know who the good guys are and rows
not broken Tom Michael Okuda tweeted
earlier this week and said Star Trek The
Next Generation hadn't yet found its
legs in season one and two now you just
finished season two you're about to
start shooting season three do you feel
that you've found your legs I would
never want to be so egotistical as to be
the person to say that I I felt like
that the show had found itself in season
one I think it started with about a girl
and then into Priya and then started
really hitting his stride through into
the fold which is when you know Isaac
and Claire's started you know the early
part of their relationship hmm
I think the second half of season two
we've definitely moved into where I
think Seth wanted to be which is more of
a dramedy you know I think there's more
they come I think the beauty of of Seth
and the way he works is that he's kind
of a showman and he he believes that you
know isn't he's in the old Hollywood
model like you don't you know you work
on it and it involves like like the
pilot Seinfeld versus the gestalt of
Seinfeld so I'm not comparing us to
Seinfeld but I'm saying is that you know
it were we're always trying to better
ourselves so I think we're more like a
10 like we were this cute little like
one flippered guy and then we got some
legs yes and like a flipper and now
we're like full-bore toad yeah one day
we're gonna find our prince we're just
gonna be the sexiest show you guys ever
seen listen I felt like I fell in love
with the show in season one but it
really started to feel in season two
when when the when the Kalon attacked
that this was not just what we were all
expecting which was like seth's vision
of that like dramedy outerspace show but
it really felt like a genuine sci-fi for
our viewers at home I want to take a
look at that clip
due to a YouTube copyright claim we are
unable to play this clip here however
the official the Orval youtube channel
features the clip please follow the link
in the description to see the clip I
feel like viewers weren't sure when the
show first started what to expect from
Seth's sci-fi show and some of us were
wondering like is it going to be just a
space comedy or a spoof we were getting
spoof a lot and then it really did
evolve into this genuine sci-fi show did
it was there a point along the way that
that you folks realized internally that
hey this is this is really a genuine
serious sci-fi well in fairness we had
access to most of the scripts in season
1 yeah so we knew where it was going ok
and you know in and this is not a knock
on Fox or anything but I think everyone
including Seth and I'm theorizing here
for a little we talked about is that it
for him to come out and be taken
seriously as a sci-fi vet I think even
he was probably nervous about it you
know it's like so he had to sort of see
change the audience to get used to him
to being able to tell more serious
stories man's always had it in him you
know everything is I mean this is his
vision this is his baby but I think you
know I think he I think I think a lot of
people worried like well it has to be
Family Guy in space or they're not gonna
accept it yeah probably lean too hard in
that direction in terms of promotion and
things like that but like I always knew
that when the pilot was around you know
about a girl was already you know most
of our season for a season was already
shot same thing with season 2 when
Brooke came along like you know we knew
what we've know where it's going yeah
and that also helps us inform how we
edit the effects post shoot the whole
season we we we know how it ends so the
most frustrating part is waiting you
know 3 months 6 months 10 years whatever
long the hell we get this next season
the fans to see it yes sometimes they'll
ask a question and we're like
you know the answer yeah and I'll be
I'll be honest I personally when I first
started watching the Orville had a real
problem not envisioning Brian as ed
mercer like but just because it's Seth
right so Brian the dog from from Family
Guy and and so I I stuck it out and it
was around episode five that I really
realized that hey this is this is like
the genuine article this is this is
great and now like I can't get enough of
it well I'm gonna get he's gonna I'm
gonna get in trouble for this but the
boss man can act when I say it but I
gotta stare at him all day he's actually
got chops and you know he is not he is
not Brian it's in him I mean it's part
of him but he's you know if you've said
a lot his voice and some other things
and you know he's got he's got skills
and depth range so for sure it just you
know he needed some time to need some
screen time for people to know that yeah
so that's all well I think the approach
has been fantastic and it certainly
worked out well
oh yeah and absolutely like such a
talented guy when when you came in
tonight we were listening to Seth
MacFarlane on our Amazon echo I'd
encourage you to try it just say shuffle
songs by Seth MacFarlane and see what to
see what it comes out with now one of
the comments that I spotted on Twitter
as well just kind of as we're wrapping
up I know your time is valuable tonight
and I really appreciate you taking this
all right thanks Tom
Jon Cassar he said the other day on
Twitter this is an executive producer
director of the Orval he said the
audience gets to tell the broadcaster's
cable networks and streaming services
what they want by the way they spend
their entertainment dollar so Tom it
raises the question how can we as fans
of the Orval tell the network's what we
want and that's more of the Orval like
what is that entertainment dollar in
today's modern landscape because I want
to answer this properly I mean like how
how do you how do you tell us how to
spend you mean how
we get that message across well from
John's perspective like there is no free
TV we're actually we're telling the
network's through our spending how you
know what they should be investing in
how there is no free TV if you you know
the God in the days of the antenna you
you're paying for charter you're paying
for Hulu live you're paying for you know
YouTube live you know it it you know in
this skinny bundling era you you people
do speak with their wallets buy it by
tuning into a show it's not even just
like viewership it's online activity
it's it's it's it's fandom it's it's
conventions it's also in our at least
our case so yeah it's being active and
passionate is is a way to let people
know that you're into or not into a
product for lack of a better word I
think that's kind of what he was saying
yeah I think and because a lot of people
have been saying is you know oh we were
on free TV but we really technically
weren't we were just we're another pay
service but no TV is free anymore and
they kind of snuck that in under the
wire that we all got to pay for the free
TV we were supposed to get from 3 News
then you know and Romero you hear that
sound so what are more returning this
brave right now about how where
television is gone but ya know
everything cost when we tune in is that
voting for the Orval yeah absolutely
yeah I mean we when we were you know on
Fox and we're broadcast like you know we
still trap the viewer numbers and that
definitely like if we have very high
numbers and very high interaction where
people are watching it you know from
start to finish or at least most of it
you know that tells the network's who
you know put the money out for us make
content you know hey yeah we got the
money on this because everybody's tuning
in for this
it also helps because I think we you
know we were we were on Fox we were
around like football we were on sports
and stuff we were like well if you know
if we can get those people to grab on
you know it's all about placement it's
all about where you're putting
everything where
viewers what time of the day they're at
what day of the week they're at like all
of this is in those very meticulous
everybody's looking at it but with with
streaming the game of Thrones did the
best where they were on HBO and HBO was
like this is basically paying for our
reason to exist is because people can
watch it they don't have to buy the HBO
you know cable bundles they can just buy
they're six months on how many emails
they put on there for free and you know
they were there know like yeah we have
to have this because people are tuning
in they're looking at it so I'm I'm not
if they were sent sure what the question
was but I think what he's trying to say
is that by you guys telling us what you
want what you need like you guys wanted
more Orville we're on hula now we're
going to give you a horrible
if you guys want less horrible we want
more Orville and and you talk you talk
about Hulu I will add something please
though you know here's the thing about
the television business and and and
actually the the film business in
general is that because of the way
things are now it's not just live and
even live plus three ratings there's so
many other factors that that come into a
shows or or franchises existence and
it's changing so fast even the people
that are making it can't always keep up
with it and in terms of Technology in
terms of like you know where it's being
sold international markets you know more
marketing in terms of light toys or you
know I mean speaking part I mean this is
the science of making a TV show now yeah
and and so and we're because we're not
you know my dinner with Andre we're one
of those shows you know so the math
behind it you know it's fun in a way I
love interacting with people and they
have theories about why the show moved
here moved there to this but the use of
the answer is
more mathematical and way more mundane
than anyone ever hopes which is not that
exciting but it's the business of what
we do so thinking about Hulu and the
change there what is going to change for
the viewers as far as like no I don't
mean like hey now maybe I need to
subscribe to a different service or
something like that but what are the
changes that are happening at the
Orville and and with the show we're
bigger bigger better stronger faster I
mean you know we're greener
I mean look said this and we said it not
having time restriction just because in
the story is as long as as people wanted
to be and that was a big thing you know
when you when you when you cut a story
perfectly you know luckily and there's
no difference the Fox they've been
amazing to us but you know and they were
able to even give us for one year give
us the 48:10 runtime right but you know
the standard Fox Network show is 4340
I'm saying this I'm the editor I know
how we do it you know yeah 9:1 has cram
and then they kill themselves up there
they're literally upstairs from us
Jam a lot of story into 4340 you know
imagine like you've been killing
yourself you're spending millions of
dollars to do this the show and then you
have to cut 17 seconds out just to make
this arbitrary time marker and that 17
seconds could be that one look from that
one character that totally changes the
tone of a show yeah now we got to cut it
out so they so they can do a commercial
it's it's a it's an it's an old way of
doing things and and and it puts
storytelling at a disadvantage I'm not
saying it has to go you know just roll
at infinitum and then it's just like
you're watching like a bunch of dailies
that go on forever but having the
freedom to tell the story you want to
tell the time you want to tell it it's
really big Freya's that sounds like
that's a sorry it sounds like a huge
benefit to fans of the show and to the
team creating it as well alright you
know getting the gamer through that game
of Thrones HBO model is like none of
those stories would have been told in 25
minutes like yeah you would have to tune
in you know for
six months and just try to figure out
try to tell those stories so you know we
we want to be that cool we want to be
that big we want to you know we want
spend that much money you know you guys
want it to be this great you know sci-fi
show and so do we
so what's the best option to do that you
know go where the champions are at on
streaming with you know less
restrictions a little extra cash example
because you know I've been we've been
pretty good and thank you to says for
allowing me and us to put out deleted
scenes and things me happening specific
example of an episode that got banged
into it yeah I would love to okay so
sanctuary the Jonathan Frakes episode
that was a massive episode okay there
was but there was some dialogue in you
know in the in the would F Murray
Abraham in the big my brain so at the
big chamber you know the the planets are
a union chamber that gave some nuances
to the script that had to get cut
because even though they were because
you could live without them you know but
it's the little bits the little details
and a couple of jokes here and there
that kind of like flesh it out give it
like texture and layers there was a
fight that we were gonna originally put
online but it needs some of the effects
work we're you know boardís you know
he's enraged
one of the mountain soldiers wraps grabs
one of the kids in the in the colony
right do you remember that at all yeah
yeah okay and and it's not you know now
the way it plays is that he chased him
through the forest and knocks him out
with the butt of his gun right right
that's when we sense a whole there's a
whole sitting on my abot right here
there's a whole two-minute knock-down
drag-out fight between him and that guy
that's awesome
really we would just love to have but so
how are the VFX coming on that well
somebody got paid for that so it's like
some things just are some things are
just left in the machine yeah but we
won't have to make those choices this
year and maybe someday if we have time
or Brooks somehow and cajole someone
into getting it done we'll get it out
there but it's you know it's those it's
those painful choices that
we don't necessarily anymore yeah right
now is the plan to release all the
episodes at once for the next season or
are you phasing them out and how does
that we're gonna do we're gonna do
weekly we're gonna no we're not gonna
we're not gonna we're not gonna destroy
everyone's life by suddenly dropping it
at once I'm just backing up just for a
real quick sec when tom was talking
about the toys yeah and the
merchandising merchandising
merchandising yeah you had a question
yeah so in our chat room on disk or one
of the questions is when are we gonna
see more Orval merchandising like what
is it gonna be everywhere like orville
like it's literally coming you know I'm
not the marketing guy where I do work
with some of the marketing people and
like in fairness you know we're not a
there's a term for it that they call
it's like a line of Walmart or or or
shit they have like a colloquial term
for it but you know we're a little more
niche but there is things coming as you
know the Eagle Mouse stuff is coming
that we got Corbett effects doing stuff
yeah there's some there's there's gonna
be toys and and gadgets and fun that you
can buy awesome and I think that speaks
again so like you guys closely why young
guys were like we want phasers Blazers
and freaking ships like now we're like
alright we need to try and make it we
have you know really cool trading cards
even the fans have made a really cool
stuff that we're like oh man like we
need to do that to have some of this in
my office but you know but a lot of this
is gonna roll out between now and the
premiere and you know it's it's in
production now so there is stuff coming
but it's never I'm telling you no
there's not a world right now unless you
know suddenly we get marveled sighs
where we're gonna have Kenner figures
made of everybody it's just that's
that's that's a very specific model of
some very large franchises and yeah
maybe someday we'll get there but that
that takes a little bit of history in
time I'm not saying I'm not opposed to
it I would love it but well I take time
to throw that to that level I would love
to throw some money at diecast models
yes Johnny hey Matt Siegal moss and our
friends at Corbin are coming out with
ships as well so you're gonna be able to
play with little or VLEs at some point
Johnny a real Johnny I read is hoping to
see some krill maybe some action figures
would be pretty cool pew pew
now we're just about out of time and I
love that you have both taken the time
with us this week and and we here at the
studio appreciate it I know we the Orval
fandom really appreciate you taking the
time as well can you tell us real
briefly about what is happening with
season three as far as like when are you
shooting when can we expect episodes is
there anything fun that's coming that we
maybe don't yet know about you know
everybody's so excited you know bigger
better
maybe somebody listen to the pitch about
a musical if I'm longer episodes longer
episodes which is key here this is not a
news flash we shoot you know we're
shooting about a week and a half so
we're in the trench now how long do you
have to shoot like what does that look
like yeah well I can't I can't really
say let me put it this way we we have we
have taken the network model and put it
in the side so with we're shooting the
appropriate amount of days to get these
things done okay so do you shoot the
hole we're not trying cram yeah we're
not we're not gonna cram things into
eight days yeah okay so so do you do you
shoot the whole season and then it's in
your hands your team's hands to actually
put it all together earlier is that
we're always multitasking you know we're
we're doing you know prep stuff so that
we can shoot it faster but you know
again maybe we'll have a better idea in
six months and we'll go back and try
again you know there's not we kind of
break the mold of like the formula of
like shoot everything and think about it
later like you know something could
happen with our friends over at NASA
where they you know get even better
pictures of the black hole and we're
like so you know our our pride and joy
is to be up to
as possible but also be able to
multitask so that we can get through as
much as we can because it is such a huge
show and so that we can give it the
proper time that it needs to look great
yeah but also be able you know throw in
those really snazzy things that come
along the way so whoa whoa also like
we'll start I mean there'll be effects
is up and running now I mean I'll we
shoot on the you know let's say the 21st
yeah well they'll be there cutting will
be happening on the 22nd there's already
pre cutting its I know you're the only
way yeah you know the TV and film have
started to blend um but the these
schedules have not matched so right you
know we're not quite feature level but
we're trying and you know we're
effectively shooting four and a half
Marvel movies in the time that we had so
it's it's yeah it's it's a lot of
pressure and a lot of intensity and it's
impossible it really makes it impossible
for you to say okay we're gonna be ready
on this date but you have some kind of
inkling when you're your fans will will
be able to watch season three discussion
in discussion there's just you know
we're still figuring some stuff out but
as soon as as soon as damn possible
you're drawing stuff like once a week
and you're putting it online you're just
surrounded you yourselves and and your
teams are just perfectionist and so I
expect that that what we're gonna see is
gonna be absolutely we're not TV by
committee here so it does take some more
time to get stuff done I mean this is
Seth and I mean that is the biggest
compliment ever he's involved in the
process in a lot of ways so it takes a
little extra time but the care shows on
screen and we're totally cool with it
yeah sure does a walnut waited two years
for Game of Thrones yeah no we're not
Game of Thrones
well Brooke nasca and Tom costantino
thank you so much for joining us from
backstage behind the scenes at the
Orville we appreciate your time so much
thank you
of course love take care we have to head
over to the newsroom Sasha if you're
ready I sure AM here are the stories
were covering this week in the category
five TV newsroom PayPal has dropped out
of the Alliance that is trying to launch
Facebook's digital currency Libre a man
has been able to move all four of his
paralyzed limbs with a mind-controlled
exoskeleton suit no we're not early to
April Fool's jokes of 2020 Microsoft is
really making a new mobile phone that
has two screens and runs Android and
Canada's busiest airport will soon be
using artificial intelligence power
technology to detect weapons these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere this is the category-five TV
newsroom covering the week's top text
Linux bias I'm Sasha Rickman and here
are the top stories were following this
week PayPal has dropped out of the
Alliance that is trying to launch
Facebook's digital currency Libre PayPal
made the announcement in a statement on
Friday but did not specify what had
prompted the decision Libra and its
digital wallet Calabro were revealed by
Facebook in June but the cryptocurrency
has been criticised by regulators and
both France and Germany have pledged to
block it from Europe PayPal said it
remains supportive of libras aspirations
but had chosen to focus on its own core
businesses the firm was one of the
original members of the Libra
Association a group of 28 companies and
nonprofits helping to develop Libra its
other members include payments company
Visa ride-hailing app uber and
humanitarian charity of Mercy Corps in
response to PayPal's withdrawal Libra
Association said that it was aware that
attempts to reconfigure the financial
system would be hard quote commitment to
that mission is more important to us
than anything else it said in a
statement we're better off knowing about
this lack of commitment now and quote at
its unveiling this year Facebook said
that people would be able to make
payments with the currency via its own
apps as well as on messaging service
whatsapp partner firms would also be
able to accept Libra for transactions
facebook said Libra would be
independently managed and backed by real
assets and that paying with it would be
as easy as and as texting the group of
seven advanced economies warned in July
that it would not let Libra proceed
until all regulatory concerns had been
addressed central bank chiefs including
the us's or the UK's Mark Carney have
also voiced skepticism and US President
Donald Trump has tweeted that he's not a
fan of the currency the Libra
Association will hold its first meeting
of its governing body the Libra Council
on the 14th of October the group said in
a tweet that it plan
to share updates soon afterwards about
quote 1500 entities that have indicated
enthusiastic interest to participate end
quote
how interesting this is an interesting
story because I was just reading today
that some of the American politicians
are telling visa if you stay involved
this is going to be highly scrutinized
do you want to continue and so it's
there's a lot of scrutiny over lever and
I mean I know I've said in in the past
like I think this is not a great idea
simply because of the issues Facebook
has had so you get them attached to it
and it's gonna immediately open the door
to privacy concern except how is it
going to be used and I know it's not
just Facebook but that I think that
plays in as an undercurrent of fear if
it wasn't Facebook involved would people
be more open to it and that's the big
thing like crypto currency backed by so
many companies in general I think is
like governments would be it has a
tenant because they they lose the
control over their own economy yeah and
that means they lose the control over
fair trade and and other you know it's
like that what what would the government
do if suddenly they lost all control of
the currency well yeah for sure I mean
if you figure you know you've got
trading on this the actual stock market
of currency and if suddenly there's a
run on you know American currency say
and people like you know I want to
invest in Libre instead and
nationalities are then going with the
crypto currency like the US dollar
crashes that impacts the the the whole
economy yeah so there's a whole reason
for wanting to keep things from a
monetary standpoint stable right you
know so I do I do get it I do get the
concern it's funny because I would I
would think personally because of
Facebook's issues I would have less
confidence but then knowing that visa is
partnered then that brings up right it's
like visa has this I have this comfort
and in the security of visa so much
branded themselves well have
they're really just all about the
interest but what's interesting to me is
that I think that because it's Facebook
and so many people who aren't as well
educated in the privacy issues they
probably are excited about it because
it's Facebook right perhaps yes oh this
is going to be integrated into whatsapp
right so hey that's a great feature
right so there's definitely that - I
think it's just the natural evolution of
like this is the technology than now
exists now obviously Libre doesn't I
don't we don't yet know like we
understand the they're gonna be using
real commodities in order to stabilize
the the currency right but how can a
cryptocurrency be stable that's like
that's what I'm waiting to find out
right is there gonna be no mining of the
currency like and if that's the case huh
like how do you you have to acquire it
by purchasing it just like just like
regular currency which is like you're
you're doing the exchange when I when I
have US dollars I've purchased US
dollars from here in Canada we'll see
and and does PayPal bailing out does
that really represent any any impact on
Libra or is it just gonna carry on and
PayPal is just not going to be a part of
it because they're really kind of a
competing product and cryptocurrency
doesn't really fall into what they've
really established themselves as which
is a fiat based currency bank basically
like a digital Bank and truly like time
will tell in five years PayPal is either
gonna be kicking themselves for getting
out or they're gonna be high-fiving each
other forget now we don't know right we
shall see and we'll be here to report on
it well unfortunately our teleprompter
has stopped working but luckily I have
the new stories loaded on my laptop so
if you'll excuse me I'll be looking down
to read the news a man has been able to
move all four of his paralyzed limbs
with a mind-controlled exoskeleton soon
tybalt who does not want his surname
revealed was an optician before he fell
15 meters in an incident
- at a nightclub four years ago he says
taking his first steps in an
experimental exoskeleton suit felt like
being the first man on the moon
his movements particularly walking are
far from perfect and the Robo suit is
being used in only the lab but
researchers say the approach could one
day improve patient's quality of life
Tybalt had surgery to place two implants
on the surface of the brain covering the
parts of the brain that control movement
64 electrodes on each of the implants
read the brain activity and beam the
instructions to a nearby computer
sophisticated computer software then
reads the brainwaves and turns them into
instructions for controlling the
exoskeleton the injury to his spinal
cord left him paralyzed and he spent the
next two years in hospital but in 2017
he took part in the exoskeleton trial
with the clinic with Clini Tech and the
University of Grenoble initially he
practiced using the brain implants to
control a virtual character or avatar in
a computer game and then he moved on to
walking in the suit after two years of
not walking he says he'd actually
forgotten how to walk and even lost the
perception that he was taller than a lot
of people in the room while he quickly
took to controlling the exoskeletons
ability to walk it took a lot longer to
learn how to control the arms he says
quote it was very difficult because it
is a combination of multiple muscles and
movements this is the most impressive
thing that I do with the exoskeleton end
Tybalt does need to be attached to a
ceiling harness in order to minimize the
risk of him falling over in the echoes
exoskeleton it means the device is not
yet ready to move outside the laboratory
there are also plans to develop finger
control to allow able to pick up and
move objects but the researchers have to
be careful how much data they transmit
from the brain to the computer they have
350 milliseconds to go from thought to
movement otherwise the sense system
becomes difficult to control there is
the future potential to read the brain
and more in more detail using more
powerful computers and AI to interpret
the information from the brain and the
team responsible are keen to continue
developing the technology using the
sensors titled has also used the implant
to control a wheelchair according to the
researchers their motivation is entirely
medical in providing mobility to
patients who otherwise would be unable
to move hmm that is incredible so like
let's get this straight he has like
sensors in his brain right on the
surface of his brain that are reading
his thoughts to control Rea movement
right what incredible what's impressive
about that is the fact that they've been
able to do everything things but the
fact that they've been able to isolate
the electrical impulses in the brain
that signify those specific movements
yeah like that in and of itself is
phenomenal or is he training his brain
to create new one right
I love that they have the avatar first
for him to like train on a no-confidence
with because I imagine like controlling
a machine with my mind but having my
body than at risk right yes cool
situation it is interesting though that
it it can't be done on board and then
maybe it's just the amount of computing
power that's required into the suit
well I'm sure that can be done
inevitably through technologies like
where technologies that look at single
board computers that have like NP use on
the neural processing units right that
can process data at teraflops and they
fit like in your pocket so it could be
done is just maybe they you know they
got a start yeah you got to when you're
prototyping it's always bigger and and
and and certainly the safety harness of
being strapped to the ceiling makes
sense yes is like you say you can't
imagine what would happen if like he
made the wrong thought and it collapsed
on him or something it's interesting
though cuz I'm like very safety
in this thought and I think it would be
really good if they implemented this for
wheelchairs first just like just yeah
before it works thank you and that seems
so much more simple than this yeah right
maybe wheelchairs and maybe transfer
devices drivers cars now what is cool
about this no I mean and you're talking
about putting it maybe in wheelchairs
but I'm thinking all the people that
have prosthetic limbs you know to be
able to take this technology and go hey
you know what so you're missing a part
of your arm and a hand we now have a
prosthetic limb here's this little
implant you can now control that arm the
fact you get in there oh yeah but that
excites because you can think of the
limitations that some people have to
deal with it's like okay well I can't do
that this opens up a whole new world oh
yeah I love it like I am so excited
about this project and what it means for
giving life back to people who are
hampered in some way or another it's
it's great what this is a total good
news story and and it's not just about
that mobility but just reading and like
you say the wheelchair is not moving the
body parts it's moving like a motorized
wheelchair yeah so like the
communication can be with a device it
can be with controlling other devices
who knows what they who knows exactly
this is the world is your oyster when it
comes to thoughts ideas well I am
wondering from a security standpoint
mm-hmm like I'm suddenly thinking about
the fact that it's transmitting to a
computer could this open up the door to
somebody hacking that so to speak in
taking control of the suit by setting
why are you hitting yourself why
something like this it's not just about
the mobility and what they could do but
they're also building in some security
protocols even for that kind of stuff I
mean that wasn't covered in the story
but I hope that's the case
for sure because I mean the point of
being standalone use it could have an
impact mm-hmm we'll see what happens
I've lost several years with this
technology with the with the research
that they're putting into it as well
that we've got to take a quick break the
crypto report and more of this week's
top tech stories are coming up don't go
anywhere
in what serves to confirm we are
currently living in the end times
Microsoft has made new mobile phone that
has two screens and runs Android
it would appear microsoft itself is
learning that if at first you don't
succeed
there's always linux they've inapt the
forthcoming Android surface phone duo at
their annual hardware event among other
dual screen Qualcomm and AMD powered
goodies there is a huge catch you'll
have to wait until Christmas 2020 if you
want one of your own
unlike the Samsung Galaxy fold
microsoft's attempt at a folding font
fondle stops lab pardon me is quite
clearly two screens with a chunky 360
degree hinge in the middle
allowing displays to be positioned
however you want as a small tablet as a
closed-up device half open as a book or
a fully open as a large flat tablet
those touch screens are each 5.6 inch
units making an eight point three inch
display when opened up fully while the
separate screens will be scoffed out by
owners of Samsung and Huawei's
forthcoming foldable devices which use
one large continuous bendable display
the surface monitors should at least be
more durable than the disastrous first
attempts by samsung surface enthusiasts
in chief a Panos Panay says the company
is quote partnering with Google to bring
the best of Android end quote
this comes after Microsoft extracted
billions of dollars in patent royalty
payments out of Android makers until
recently and is about to finally bring
down the axe on one of its family of
mobile Windows operating systems and
this is Android powered by Linux the
open source kernel that Redmond now
apparently loves after earlier declaring
it a cancer quite a turnaround Linux
kernel creator linus torvalds said back
in in 1998 quote if microsoft ever does
applications for linux it means I've won
well Linus you've won
that is awesome exciting I mean we're
well done Linna yeah yeah just a little
bit yes for the win well it starts to
feel like okay they it was always
windows versus yeah and Linux was made
out to sound like Oh only hackers use
that yeah well and and Linux Android is
based on Linux so it's basically powered
by Linux a lot of devices are that you
don't even realize you're routers and
things like that your phone your your
tablets they're all Linux based but
Microsoft wanted to have Windows based
tablets now to be doing Android is
pretty cool I like it yeah change it up
using artificial intelligence powered
technology to detect weapons the
operators of Toronto's Pearson
International Airport says that it has
agreed to test the new system developed
at an Ivy League American University and
marketed by a BC company vancouver-based
Liberty defense Holdings Limited
says the technology known as hex wave
can detect both metallic and nonmetallic
weapons ranging from guns and knives to
explosives it operates by capturing
radar images and then using artificial
intelligence to analyze those images for
signs of a weapon concealed in bags or
under clothing Liberty says that the
technology is not able to recognize
facial features and is therefore and
therefore does not pose a privacy risk
opposition experts in the field view
with some skepticism the Greater Toronto
airports authority which operates
Pearson says that it will start
deploying the technology in the spring
of 2020 in a bid to boost security
Dwayne McIntosh director of corporate
safety and security for the authority
said quote they were trying something
that could give us a more definitive
look at weapons and plastic explosives
that may be coming into airports when I
saw this opportunity I felt that we had
to be part of it end quote
Macintosh said the exact plans for the
pilot project are still underway but
said hacks wave units will be deployed
just
Airport terminals in order to pick up on
potential threats before they get inside
one of the systems benefits he said is
that it can be integrated with other
airport security features and trigger
responses based on what it picks up
detection of certain weapons for
instance could automatically trigger
doors to lock or sound specific alarms
Pearson Airport is not the only location
the Metro Toronto Convention Center has
also signed as a test site see I like
that last point about locking down doors
yeah think about schools or something
like that like just the idea behind that
as frightening as that is and how we
don't want that to ever be the case it's
like to be able to lock down based on
n/a I would now that also has some scary
connotations but I would say like human
security or movies like human base
security is always going to be necessary
but also it's kind of easy to pull the
wool over somebody's eyes if you know
exactly how to socially interact right
so to have AI kind of as a backup not as
the only okay yeah maybe that's it right
that's good right - so think of it that
makes me think okay so is so my
immediate thought was oh hey I being
able to lock down all the doors maybe
that's maybe that's dangerous what if it
was instead an alerting system I this is
hypothetical but you think about the the
security guard or security person
watching 300 monitors in the security
room and what if they don't catch what's
happening on this monitor because
they're looking at this monitor what if
the AI could light it up red and say
weren't burnt something's going on here
and it could be something really that's
not that doesn't even incite panic for
people like what if the the triggered
response is just something that comes
across the hall and says you know under
construction or you know what is it cool
about this is that you know for for us
here in Canada this is a local story for
us I mean yeah I'm in the Metro Toronto
Convention Center all the time I fly out
through Pearson often for work
and it's like this is kind of neat I'm
excited to actually see this put into
play and to see do I even notice it yeah
not that I'm gonna you know try to test
it but like to see like walk in and go
oh yeah okay there's that sensor oh
there's that like just to see if I can
pick up on it or does it just become
part of everyday life it's it's kind of
neat but what it's interesting about it
is that it's before you enter the
airport yes because I mean when you get
to those security checkpoints you go
through all the steps but this is kind
of like a pre-screening before you even
get in there to protect mmm everybody
who's checking in for their flights and
that's where the massive load of people
it just flights in this this particular
scenario but oh yeah there's kinds of
people that could be in the lobbies all
at once I searched you know you go ahead
oh sorry
just don't let me lose my thought okay I
wanted to speak to the privacy side of
things where they said there's a little
skeptical about the fact that faces
aren't recognized or recognizable I'm
wondering what actually you would see on
a scan right right Matt for me it would
be well you're not seeing the AI is
interpreting data and saying okay this
person there's something so my thought
is could this also not only the positive
effect of knowing that hey that person
is carrying a weapon but could this also
help to prevent stereotyping and and
racial profiling and and falsely
accusing or falsely stopping somebody
right you know waste on those kinds of
things you know what I bet it would also
help to it would diminish attempts with
people no way the technology is
integrated in it might take say somebody
was going to target an airport
they're not gonna target Pearson because
they know that Pearson has this AI what
from a you know a local perspective on
this I'm also going to does this really
need to go into Pearson like is there
more going on that I rely proactive
right it's not waiting to happen
like okay so they're piloting this like
is there reason for and and and it just
makes me go
well they do a really good job if that's
the case because you never see anything
go down at Pearson and at least the
amount of times that I've been there so
to know that this is just an added layer
of security that maybe is gonna be never
used would be great but if it is gonna
cut down on stuff I'm going Wathan well
done because I didn't know now it was an
issue yeah that's true that's it's cool
well Sasha can I jump on to the
cryptocurrency report just to let our
viewers know kind of where things are
standing as of October 9th 2019 this is
what coin gecko tells us Bitcoin Jeff is
on the rise once again we're up $325 91
cents us which brings us to eight
thousand five hundred and eighty-seven
dollars and forty-five cents per coin
cult Facebook libras still not trained
eight trading litecoin is at 5908
gaining just a few bucks aetherium is
doing pretty well as well at 191 dollars
and 42 cents up from 177 last week
Manero is holding steady at 55 82 and
Scalla
one of the small little micro coins is
losing again just a little bit at 0.32
ten thousandth of a cent turtle coin on
the other hand is gaining the same
amount almost at zero point two six ten
thousandth of a cent skele the one that
kept changing it's Dave yeah it was
stellite and then it was torque and
right became Scalla so it's still on the
downward yeah like yeah wonder if this
is really as a result of switching those
names so I'm sure like if people have
laws will stop trading in it that's
proud of the problem probably you lose
confidence in a coin that doesn't have
stability one of the things looking at
micro coins turtle coin has been
consistent yes and it's been stable and
because of that it's Owen and their logo
is a turtle shell which is pretty cool
yeah Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles for
the win but but really I mean that gives
you confidence in the micro coin being a
micro coin there's not there
no risk basically it's not like you're
gonna buy 10 billion of them but you can
mine them because they're so plentiful
and you can get it on consumer hardware
still and that's still a possibility but
the thing to remember about
cryptocurrency is that the market is
always open and it's always changing
it's very volatile and I mean like from
right now at this very moment to 10
minutes from now and even overnight it's
going to change completely and flip on
its head so you really have to make sure
that you're only investing and spending
what you can afford to lose because you
quite frankly are very possibly going to
lose it it's up and down all the time
but hey if you get gains then that's
that's a powerful thing but also there's
flooding or holding and and investing in
the future and holding that and trusting
that hey bitcoins gonna be worth more
one day and I think that's what we're
gonna see as soon as Libra starts
trading as well that's geranyl big
investments coming into Libra which is
gonna then very quickly boost the the
Libra economy and cause it to go up in
value as well so we'll see what happens
gonna be incredible I'll just keep that
in mind big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman I'm Robbie Ferguson I'm in
charge of all the tech around here sorry
about that teleprompter that you did
alright so well done yeah and I'm Jeff
Weston and I just stand here he's here
for the comic effect I've read manuals
not read the instructions we do have to
take a really quick break folks stick
around
welcome back everybody that's all the
time that we have thank you again to our
guests from the Orville this week and
next week we're going to be doing some
maker stuff we're gonna be building
assembling creating our very own thermal
imaging scanner using consumer available
components you don't want to miss out on
that now we're gonna be using it to be
able to create like a thermal visual of
our single board computer so that we can
see where the heat is and see how how
our cooling systems are working we're
gonna actually be assembling that and
building that next week so you don't
want to miss out on that but it's all
the time that we have this week hey
please do join us on patreon for some
added bonuses they call them perks you
can go to patreon.com/scishow then then
head over there as well and we greatly
appreciate your support well thanks for
being here everybody we'll talk to you
again next week see ya
