category-five technology TV is back and
on the air now even though we are
broadcasting in a socially distant way
which is kind of unexpected at least I
have my favorite co-host here with me
hey Robbie
hey man you good yeah now keep it safe
and just kind of social distances yeah
not losing my sanity at all
awesome well as you said the shows a bit
different this time around because I'm
the only friend you're allowed to hang
out with but between you and me and our
friends on zoom' I think we can pull
this off well let's see welcome back
Robbie thanks same to you our live
recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category-five TV
[Music]
well welcome back everybody it's so
great to have you joining us for
category-five technology TV just feels
like it's been forever doesn't it I'm
here at Studio E and we're safe and
sound thanks to all of our supporters on
our Kickstarter campaign and those who
have contributed by other means as well
however due to the unexpected
of course we had to call off
construction and and kind of makeshift
things as best we can in order to be
able to come and bring you a show our
first time here at studio E but I've got
a I mean they got the painting done so
that's that's something and you know
what here we are and it is so great to
see you I'm so pleased to have you here
let's get right into our interviews
folks we've got a great show for you
tonight
thing is none of us could have
anticipated the impact of kovat 19 on
the global scale we've all had our lives
flipped upside down in the past month
and here to share their experiences our
bollock now ski hey Robbie how are you
All Things Considered I'm doing well
thanks beau beau is the owner the
founder of a marriage right there one of
the world's most well respected vendors
of single board computers and other
maker tech
so this is where I'm sitting yeah just
in the middle of the Tauri area
cool my next guest is community
ambassador and co-producer of Seth
MacFarlane's the Orville Tom costantino
how's it going hanging in my friend
along with Tom I'm also thrilled to have
visual effects supervisor on the Orville
Brandon Fayette joining us next in line
is our very own world-famous co-host on
category 5 technology TV adored by all
its satiric Minh hello
and finally cosplay engineer woman who
can start her Tesla by waving her hand
and most recently a contestant on Fox's
new TV series lego masters with Will
Arnett it's a me double D hi Amy
great to see you again now since I work
in IT and we're considered essential I
still have to go to work every single
day but like you I've been very careful
to practice social distancing and for
the most part I'm interacting with
nobody but my immediate family except if
I'm separated by a couple of metres or
more my wife and three kids are at home
and I'm actually kind of feeling a bit
envious of those dads who are able to
stay home with their families right now
just going to be honest but I know it's
not easy for folks we all have our own
challenges Sasha you and your husband
Dave are you guys hanging in absolutely
yeah we are all of the above doing what
it takes you know staying isolated and
you know just keeping ourselves
entertained and prepping for the move
we're good oh how are you doing you and
your family healthy and safe oh yeah
we're all healthy good there there's a
theory that we in California have
already all had it Amy how have things
been for you transition to working from
home I work from home most the time and
I'm home on the weekends so not too much
of that has changed for me do you feel
like I'm living in a fish
like Oh wake up for the morning workout
and then like well I can go outside
today but I don't need to so it's it's
an interesting mind it's more of the
mind at least for me because I'm very
much home all the time um so it's just
been a very different yes stay away from
the news how is it that Lego masters was
able to air during the pandemic so like
a wrestlers we filmed from October to
December so we had wrapped filming
number premiere date was in February
just this week so it's been interesting
doing interviews because everything now
has been digital interviews so it's like
one of those or I just had to open the
front door and they had to take my
picture standing outside this is this is
my life now yeah it's kind of
mind-blowing how things have changed in
just a month thinking of I mean at the
start of March I announced to viewers
that we were going to be moving our
studio at the end of the month but by
the time that we got things rolling on
lease arrangements and the insurance
that I'd need for a new place cope at 19
was in full swing
so our insurance brokerage closed the
property managers office I wasn't sure
if I could get a hold of them I was
actually honestly I was getting worried
that you know perhaps I wouldn't be able
to rent a truck for the move or even
secured a unit in time but I absolutely
had to be out of our old space by April
1st I think it's fair to say that most
if not all of us were caught off guard
let's start with Brandon where were you
and the team at the Orval as like where
were you at as far as production goes I
know you were working on season 3 when
all this went down sure I mean we had we
had filmed a good portion of the first
chunk of episodes of the season and you
know the way we typically work is our
previous team for visual effects is kind
of a couple
so you know did we haven't released how
many episodes of doing the season
probably that we thought no we have it's
11 so far for today yeah so we we had
things all the way up episode of 5 and
some of some like one-off scenes shot
and you know we're in previous right now
in episode 10 so you know I mean we were
we weren't a pretty good swing
footage-wise I think when this strike
good good and now we're working from
home trying to complete kind of the
pre-visualization of all of the effects
knees and then we've been do doing the
editorial for what we have in the can
trying to kind of just get shots ready
get stuff delivered to our the effects
vendors so we can start actually
creating kind of the path towards final
you know visual effects we don't know
this time is kind of letting us do which
is pretty good yeah we're just trying to
get as much work done as we can because
you know it could be a long cold summer
were you guys ready for this like how
much time did you have to transition
from the Fox lot to home based editing
we had about a day on Lian kind of rough
we knew that we were gonna shut down on
a Friday so we kind of synched up as you
know many drives as we could you know we
have to do everything through the Disney
security standards so I got to come in
group making sure everything right you
know appropriately locked down
you know as much as you can do in the
midst of a crisis but we meant to do
pretty good I was gonna get kudos to my
wife she was a little head of the curve
because she knew this was coming so
we're I was able to secure well I mean
ask forgiveness for with content
security to get some footage going but
you know yeah I mean were we were we
ready to go from 0-100 to zero I mean no
no I don't think anybody was and I think
we had a week ramp up time to try to get
everything kind of move in and then once
we were up and running it was you know
production virtually is a little bit
stilted but we're moving in pretty good
clip now I think we've kind of gotten
into any things
cool Sasha how about you as a personal
support worker you care for elder
elderly folks and I imagine that this
would be a very difficult time
what throughout this entire the pandemic
what has caught you off-guard I was used
to the assumption that the clients I saw
would be my biggest risk you know
there's always risk of injury like back
injuries let's and falls as soon as the
pandemic came it was the realization
that I as an outsider coming into
people's homes now I was the risk to
them that was that was the biggest thing
that caught me off guard was the fact
that all of a sudden I felt like at any
point in any interaction with any one
person I could unknowingly be getting
them sick and so I I mean I already am a
very careful person but I went in to lay
OverDrive's and if there is a rule to be
followed I am following it but yeah that
was the thing that was the biggest thing
that really hit me with the pandemic I
would say well what about you guys what
were you in the midst of a Tamara Droid
we were in the process of scheduling
appointments to go visit clients in the
California Bay Area okay Silicon Valley
and San Francisco area and obviously or
social distancing reasons and with a
marriage Roy being a tech company do you
feel that that kind of better prepared
you to suddenly have to move staff to a
home-based work scenario well we are
very much a paperless operation we
almost all of our stuff is already done
digitally good good we have network
staff so we do things like VPNs and all
that type of stuff to get into the
business anyway so Remote Desktop and
virtual machines and stuff like that so
it hasn't really changed a whole lot for
us because we were already kind of
prepared to do
right and we do a lot of work on you
know instead of on paper we do it on
tablets and on on the screen
Amy how about you how have your plans
been impacted yes so I'm supposed to go
to a hacker event in Serbia and we're
planning to fly into Budapest and then
take the train down to Serbia and have
like a hacker thing on the trains and
friends so that is a postpone with no
like no date I got a Def Con in August I
go to Dragon Con which is also in August
and that may seem it's like enough time
ways away but it's I mean it's really
not I don't see like too many even if
they do reinstate it how many people are
going to be going to these things
because right here is a very strong
motivator there are a lot of people and
the fear of the unknown and the the
Internet is this epitome of
misinformation
so that's are you gonna be going to an
event and if you are now people are
going to be hugging or the interactions
are not gonna be the same or how people
spend money in the future is going to be
very different
I I think this will be an interesting
wake-up call for some of the younger
generations that haven't saved you know
there are six months of savings or their
thousand dollar emergency funds or
however they handle like the financial
crisis situation and I just adds to like
another stress level and it's
interesting because it's how can how can
we give back when we can't even like
some people can't even help themselves
or you feel you can't help like with
interaction and I will say like working
on some side projects or just building
things sometimes I I feel guilty about
sharing like stuff I'm making or working
on I feel guilty for being happy
we actually had a hangout call the other
day with a bunch of people from the Lego
masters and we all just like had a
hangout call and we were just like
building yeah it was nothing plan to
build but everyone we were just building
with something with Lego and all just
hanging out on a live call and it was it
just felt that that felt normal to be
doing something that your
familiar with yeah so change is hard
right so it's you're out of your comfort
zone for a lot of the most a lot of
people are out of their comfort zone for
that but yeah guess I've got an infinite
supply of Lego for now comes with the
territory I guess now while I was really
fortunate to have some friends help out
with the move itself for me it's been
really tough juggling the studio move
and setting things up and being ready to
broadcast tonight since social
distancing says that I can't have anyone
else here to help me out we also had to
postpone the construction so I don't
have a stage or even a desk in front of
me I've had to drill a hole through the
studio wall as a temporary way to get
the signal from the camera into the
production room which is actually a
separate room so I think you know while
my scenario is not terrible we're all
having to kind of figure out innovative
ways to keep doing what we do I'll start
with Tom what about you what's it been
like to have to move to a home-based
production studio I hate not seeing
everyone and also trying to work with
the boss from you know we're you know
seven miles away from each other and
it's you know presents some technical
challenges and yeah I mean I'm Brandon
can answer too it's you know I mean
luckily we do a lot of stuff on
computers and hence we're all pretty
good about you know keeping up with each
other but you know it's nothing replaces
all of us being in an office together
sure yeah I miss I'm missing I'm missing
everybody's faces for sure but you know
we lucked out that we live in an area of
the country that has fast enough
internet that we can do remote
workstation and yeah and why do either
you know little tricks to kind of make
sure that we can keep moving forward you
feel at least kind of like we're in the
office even though we don't really see
each other except over a camera like
this yeah I mean we're definitely
working good I mean it won't be forever
we're you know we're gonna run out of
work I mean the effects can go a little
longer
we can work that out financially but you
know we're now we're gonna run the
pipeline till we run out of material
once we have you know all the end it's
delivered by you guys meaning we've got
a lot of work that shows a really visual
effects heavy so I mean we've got
thousands of shots already that we can
start kind of putting into production
just with what you did last few weeks so
you know best to get sculpted the
animated you know
ingested into vendor systems you know
and then we start bringing it to life
shot so it's good we got a lot to do
fortunately yeah I can't imagine Tom you
you also said that you'll eventually run
out of work I can only hope that by the
time you get to that point we're going
to be through this but I guess some
viewers and certainly myself are
wondering right now do you have any
projections at this point as to you know
when the third season of the Orval is
going to be available I I'm not at
liberty to say because I don't know I
think this is gonna affect all
production we will all be in the same
boat so without without quoting me and I
mean that yeah I can't see how all of
television and film isn't delayed by
this you know what people aren't
realizing is we have to now figure out
how you go back and put a hundred to 200
people in a wood box and film together
when there's you know when we don't have
a vaccine or a treatment yet so we got
some plans to do we that we mean the
higher ups than us right right
that's not answer yeah
Sasha how how have you and Dave been
impacted so with the pandemic happening
we made the very important decision to
be closer to Dave's dad sooner rather
than later and we moved up our mood our
move to Newfoundland by a few months and
so we're packing up and leaving and
going in the midst of a pandemic which
is an interesting kind of it's a
challenge because you we have to abide
by social isolation and physical
distancing even during you know a very
big like multi-day move where we have to
take into account the fact that we can't
go anywhere for food you know that sort
of thing when we get to the and we get
to the house we get home we're not
allowed off the property for 14 days
it's it's legally you know mandated
quarantine which we happily will abide
by but it does mean that we've had to
make make arrangements that there's
gonna be food there for us you know that
you know that sort of thing that you
don't even you would never think that
free movement in your own country would
be something that you would have to
really think about though how have you
been impacted at a marriage right there
there are people are working from home
now almost most people here are working
from home at the moment but our shipping
staff still coming in and they're still
shipping yeah and everybody's in a
social distancing thing good we have a
fair amount of room here so it's easy to
keep keep our distance
but in our in our county right now
there's only one confirmed case and it's
a somebody who's on parole so or on
probation I guess it's they're under
house arrest right now anyway so just
like the rest of us bow ami how about
you
so I have pretty much a full maker space
shop in my house so that hasn't changed
too much I have the access to 3d
printers laser cutters I have a five
access CNC machine I have like I have
all the tools to do stuff here yeah at
this point I think it's just as I always
spent on this little little it says head
case alright because at some point I'm
always worried about time for finishing
a project or for a certain event or a
certain kind and now it's like I have
this abundance of time well what can I
be doing with this extra time I'm now
I'm not commuting an hour to work in an
hour from work I mean reality is
everyone has the same hours in the day
as everyone else right so you know when
people are what's the motivation to get
out of bed in the morning for me I've
been making myself workout every day so
when people are stumbling out of bed
when it's still dark outside I've
already I've already worked out for the
day I've already tried to make the best
of it
that's a good idea how do you stick to
it I am I am you make a habit you make a
discipline you just indiscipline not as
a punishment and discipline as in you
can do this you're you know you're worth
it so every day so I think today is like
my 24th day that I worked out or
something but like like the fifth day
I'm like this sucks
I don't want to do great but that
discipline has like I'm like come change
so much of just how my day has been at
like alright I'm waking up at the same
time every morning even on the weekend
when I don't have to work because if
nothing I just get in this slump and I'm
like now I'm just watching useless stuff
on TV something that is not furthering
or pushing myself like I could stay home
anytime and watch Netflix like why um
not that I still got some enough
lectures I like so no judgement on that
it's I think it's going to change to the
future of any elect companies or places
that say hey you can't work from home
and now all these companies in these
lucien to that right also all the
wonderful parents that are also learning
how to balance homeschooling and and
working yeah i think it's been a
different challenge for each of us you
know I think like I'd try to think how
many days it's been my biggest challenge
is my dad is older so try to not you
know like if I have to be around him or
you know go get his groceries like not
being able to give those people a hug
has been like hard for me I think also
like not the fear of the unknown
the fear of the unknown is probably one
of the hardest things is I'm I'm
planning to go to these two conferences
if they need to be here so I'm trying to
plan to work on these projects and how
these things finished on time so now
where's the motivation to finish those
why should I finish those and that's the
next steps like okay what if this is the
new norm now now we're not going to be
having these events am i making my
projects for myself or other people am I
making it like it's kind of sorry
puppies thirsty no worries you were
saying that you were considering whether
you were making your projects for
yourself or for others yeah but it's
kind of made me think it's like why do
we do the things that we do do we do
them for acceptance about people are we
doing them for us or doing them to learn
and I think I've kind of been honing on
like improving some projects I've
already worked on and I was like so I'm
not gonna go back and work on that it's
fine and you know I'm fine it's just not
okay so I've been back and kind of
improving on some of those and I have
the time to do it so that's been a yeah
I guess an interesting balance yeah
that's good
Sasha what's been the hardest for you I
think the uncertainty day-to-day the
fact waking up not not knowing what's
happening the next day has been
difficult and I would say for me
personally my biggest challenge has been
I have a tendency to lean towards like
the bright side of everything as you
know and although I mean it's so good to
see all of all of the humanitarian
efforts and all of the good that's
coming out of this pandemic there's a
real sad side of it
and for me it's coming to terms with
like the actual fact of the tragedy and
it's been a very big challenge for me to
balance that I think because I have
found myself you know being one of maybe
many who end up glued to the TV and
they're watching stats and they're
watching you know it's it's real lives
being affected yeah but at some point I
had to teach myself okay I need to turn
it off and just tune in you know to
something something good lights so
that's been our biggest challenge is
just learning to filter through when
it's appropriate to be a part of the the
news and when it's not a me how about
you I had my grandmother died I'm so
sorry but I never thought I would be
asking like to do a private live
streaming of a funeral and you know we
live in weird times and you know so a
lot of family members couldn't be there
for the funeral and I was trying to put
it in a way to my dad is it's not as a
disrespectful thing to do this for your
mother our grandmother and my brother
put it as a good point he said we have
these amazing technology tools to
connect us so even if we can't
physically be there like we can be there
virtually and people didn't used to have
that that chance or that experience and
though it is bizarre I guess you would
say to livestream a private funeral I
know the people that couldn't be there
were very
people that they could at least I guess
honor or put their respect towards it
yeah yeah it's it's definitely living in
a weird time yeah Sasha besides the move
itself what kind of changes has the
pandemic brought about for you so this
is actually really quite be interesting
it's almost experiment in the fact that
we were between studios and then we were
in a pandemic yeah and we have to be
physically distant because now as a part
of the show in order to maintain you
know the connections I've made I am
going to turn a part of the house into a
studio and so I'll be able to connect
remotely just as we're doing now and I
mean it'll be a different time zone
which I understand but I'll have to get
accustomed to I think I end up I end up
airing an hour and a half later than you
but yeah I'll be I'll still be part of
the show I'll just be very physically
distant Amy how have you had to adapt I
found that I've had to become more
resourceful so for example I was trying
to design some like new circuit board
components and I need some parts that I
don't have and have to order well now
they're not available right I can't get
them so I'm like okay I have to use what
I have in my house I feel like I'm like
you know yeah you have East my things
and you have to make this and you have
an hour I feel like I'm back on the Lego
master but I feel that I started become
more creative and or really understand
the parts that I do have or take things
apart but it's hard there's technical
apology yeah I think having the Internet
has the internet connects us but I even
did like the Netflix watch party and
I've never done that before where you
watch movies with your friends
like why that's weird I just watch
movies by myself anyways but it was
actually really fun because we had six
of us in the room and early movie you're
sitting next to the person or you're in
the dark so you don't ever get to see
and it was actually probably more fun to
watch my friend's facial expressions
because some of them had never seen you
know like some of these like old school
movies or Star Wars or Indiana Jones and
you're just like wait a minute or they
like may make the connection so to watch
their facial expressions like taking
someone to Disney World for the first
time it's almost just as monthly watch
them that's such a fun idea
now this is a terrible time for many and
and some of you that are watching at
home may have lost a loved one or some
of you are scared or coping with
loneliness or worry I want you to
remember that you're not alone through
this we're all experiencing this
differently but we're all in this
together Tom your thoughts you know I'm
gonna quote my great grandmother and mom
who's no longer with us but it was very
wise and she always would say this too
shall pass and she's been through like
three world wars and you know trying to
think about all the all the myriad of
things I think she was even around for
the early part of the Great Depression
so you know it seems as bad right now
and it's gonna be rough but humans are
resilient and know maybe in a year year
and a half it'll just be that haha funny
thing for us it was lucky to stay
healthy haha funny thing hey remember
that time we all were stuck in our
houses for months on end um hopefully
you know but I do think the human race
is very resilient I think you know like
I said it's almost like buying a house
if you were lucky enough to do so it's
horrible trying to do it and then when
then you don't remember any of it except
for the house when it's over with so you
know I think I think we'll all be okay
eventually thanks Tom yeah I hear ya it
actually reminds me my wife and I were
just going through some old photos from
a couple years back just this past
weekend
we'd taken the kids up to the cottage
for Canada days fireworks so we sat on
the beach of West Guilford and as the
Sun went down we got eaten alive by
mosquitoes it was terrible but as we
looked at the photos my wife actually
remarked in looking at the pictures all
you see is the good part of the memories
you forget about the insects the
discomfort and how terrible it was at
the time we made it through and now all
we have is the fond memory and I'm
really hoping that we're gonna see the
same in this situation sascha final
words this will pass we will be okay and
we're with you every step of the way
this world is is small we are your
neighbors we I mean if anything that
that this pandemic has shown us is how
just even one kind word to another
person can really make a difference and
yeah I just want to say we're in this
together and we are here for you I am
here for you all this be here in
Newfoundland thank you my friend Amy
what would you say is important for each
of us to keep in mind I think it's it's
okay to laugh still and I think that's
what people are sometimes afraid of
right now is like I feel guilty for
having fun and finding doesn't have to
mean you're irresponsible and you're you
know you're going outside with like 20
people and you're right I mean fun can
be like we were you know you get
together your friends and you do a
livestream and you put together stuff so
you can yeah
you can laugh so after you can still
have some future I don't have I don't
the right answer for that and I don't
anyone that says they have the right
answer doesn't know themselves there's
too many unknowns yeah support like
you're not eleven like that that's the
best part you're your
not alone but we also have the tools to
connect or maybe you know someone who
can't afford a laptop maybe you can you
know donate for some you know people to
get laptops or cell phones something to
have someone to help them stay in touch
because those are things I I don't think
about and I know some of the school
districts they're teaching you know the
kids are from home I'm gonna go do they
provide laptops for those kids and I
know a lot of schools don't so that's
it's also financial yeah you're right
I've been fortunate personally that with
all with all three of my kids at home
I've been able to give them each an old
computer but sadly and I kind of feel
bad about this but it honestly Amy I
never really thought about how others
may not have access to to an old
computer for example so I think that's a
really great idea thanks Amy bow
speaking to those who are struggling
right now what would you like them to
know and that's that's hard you know
life can be really difficult and we've
come through with quite a few challenges
since the turn of the century haven't we
with terrorist attacks and housing
crisis in the late 2000 like 2008 and
and after that we had the recession and
and you know just their ongoing actions
in the Middle East and I don't know just
there's been a lot of stuff going on in
life
and you know I from a technology
standpoint there's not really a whole
lot we can do other than you prepare to
work from home too
we raised our children in a home school
environment so so as far our children
are already out of that past that so it
would not have made much difference for
us from a schooling perspective but I
can see how for a lot of people it's
it's making a huge difference and
I'm hoping that it gives people more
time with their children really as they
as a prepare to school from home and as
they work from home as well of course I
can be challenging to segment work and
school you're fortunate enough you know
work and family life yeah yeah but as
far as people who are suffering that's I
wish I had some magic words to say for
those people other than bro in your in
your faith and rely on a higher power
because you know we as humans can only
do so much thanks Bo
Brandon some final thoughts I think
right now
there are people that are fortunate to
be able to work like we are and you know
for as long as we have that that's
blessing and I think for those that are
struggling right now you know the world
has gotten through recessions the world
has gotten through Wars people are very
good at adapting and there's gonna be a
light at the end of this tunnel there
they're always you know we as a society
and as a planet you know can get through
things and bounce back even stronger and
I think that there's me a lot of
positive that comes out of this that we
didn't really see before and I'd say for
everybody you know find a thing to keep
you happy find a new hobby
just spend some time doing something you
haven't done before but find one great
thing in a day to you know keep you
motivated you know create something
you've never created you know it's it's
a time to explore things it's a time to
say you know hey for those who have
family you know this is time you're
never gonna get again like this you know
taking photos of your kids have these
memories you know they won't remember it
but you will and you can show them later
what this was like for me is it's a
milestone event for the world I think we
need to just recognize that in the midst
of all the negative that's surrounding
us there's definitely positive
thanks so much everyone I appreciate
those words so very much from all of us
we wish you your family's health and
comfort throughout this time stay safe
we'll be right back
this is the category 5 dot TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight Linux bias time to head
into the newsroom here's Henry Bailey
Brown Thank You Robbie to help with the
self-isolation applause google has made
its stadium pro video game streaming
service free for two months Phil
Harrison the head of Google stadia wrote
on Google's blog video games can be a
valuable way to socialize with friends
and family when you're stuck at home so
are giving gamers in 14 countries free
access to stadia for two months unlike
before where you have to order the
stadia controller and the chromecast
ultra in order to subscribe now all you
need is a gmail account which many of us
already have for free but while most
games available to stream through Google
stadia need to be bought the pro
subscription does come with some free
ones
the notable of these are destiny to
create steam world quest hand of
Gilgamesh and thumper stadia Pro is
normally a $10 monthly subscription
those already subscribed simply won't
get billed for the next two months while
people signing up for the first time
will get all the benefits of pro and
will be switched to a free account after
two months Pro benefits include access
to the free game library and the ability
to Street the stream them at a higher
quality than just 1080p and 60 frames
per second during this period however
Google will be adjusting their bandwidth
usage to cope with the influx of new
users and the increase of people
streaming stuff online in general like
we're all at home these days right so as
a result the default will be 1080p
instead of the 4k however you can switch
that in settings for now if you're new
to stadia go to stadia calm to sign up
download the stadia app on Android or
iOS and then you can play on your laptop
desktop Chrome OS tablet with your
favorite controller or mouse and
keyboard again just some personal
thoughts on this story it's a very
interesting time to be a gamer for sure
again stadia Pro has had its positives
as well as
negatives such as the idea that people
aren't too happy with having to buy
their games again to play in a cloud
platform that being said there's other
alternatives available if you don't want
to get into stadia and Google such as
the Xbox game pass how again you have a
huge library of games that you buy that
are very often cross-platform so you can
play these games on your Xbox as well as
on your PC etc with a single account
your Xbox account or you can even do the
other service that I personally prefer
the NVIDIA GeForce now where basically
you're using a Nvidia servers to play
your games however it's actually a free
service you can play up to an hour for
free or you can play up to I believe six
or eight hours paying around $10 a month
Canadian but basically what this service
entails is that you don't have to buy
your games the second time you basically
just log in to steam my games or even
free games such as war Thunder World
warships World of Tanks whatever and you
can actually play your games that you
already own on this free service well if
you play only for an hour but again I've
used it I'm very happy with it and again
you don't have to buy your games twice
which is the big factor with stadia well
stadia prove worthy let's decide you can
now play for two months what a great
time to be able to get into streaming
your games thanks Henry
and for our next story here's Jeff
Weston the CEO of Cambridge Qualcomm
computing called honeywell's efforts the
best-kept secret in quantum computing in
a race where most of the major players
are vying for attention Honeywell has
quietly worked on its efforts for the
last few years and under strict NDA it
seems but early last month the company
announced a major breakthrough that
acclaims will allow it to launch the
world's most powerful quantum computer
this year
Honeywell has long built the kind of
complex control systems that power many
of the world's largest industrial sites
it's that kind of experience that has
now allowed it to build an advanced ion
trap at the core of its efforts
computers use bits to transfer
information the more bits the more data
that can be transferred think of the
leap from Super Nintendo
sixteen bits to the Nintendo 64 at
64-bits quantum information is
transferred in qubits which have the
same purpose as a traditional computer
bits but are radically more powerful
these qubits can eventually form quantum
gates which can lead to quantum circuits
that's the measure Google was using
Honeywell however is measuring what IBM
first called quantum volume which looks
at a quantum machine more holistically
taking into account the number of qubits
connectivity and gate and measurement
errors the larger the quantum volume the
more complex problems you can solve says
dr. patty Lee chief scientists for
Honeywell IBM owns machines ibm's own
machines Havok we've achieved a quantum
volume of 32 Honeywell's machines
achieves twice that currently Honeywell
has about 100 scientists engineers and
developers dedicated to its quantum
project original projections might have
seen Honeywell's quantum computer
unveiled this summer we'll see how long
that shapes up in light of Koba 19
thanks Jeff we do have to take a quick
break the crypto corner and more of this
week's top tech stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
I'll come back to the cryptic corner yes
I missed you too it's been some time and
as you can see I'm working from home
it's probably most of us we're running
through deep crisis on a global level
and if you're working in the travel
industry or tharam industry then life is
not easy and as there was always when
there was a difficulty there's always
also an opportunity and I see the
opportunity very clear here in my
industry which is the cryptocurrency
industry or blockchain technology there
was even a research done by LinkedIn
that came out with a result that
companies are desperate need of
blockchain developers and that's what I
want to focus on today I want to focus
on on a positive note and so who's
currently hiring blockchain developers
or blockchain people that that our
knowledge of blockchain technologies
well first of course startups there are
a lot of startups that have got
brilliant ideas they have got money and
they're desperate look off of good
people then large companies because they
know that I have to move into blockchain
technologies tech firms as always and
governments so those are the four big
sectors that are currently looking for
blockchain people and what are they
looking for well of course the usual
subjects marketing which includes public
relations and communication and social
networking and so on trade and sales
it's a big one support help desk and so
on legal compliance and my favorite is
development and that's what I want to
focus on where are a technology Channel
and so that's why I would like to focus
more on development so if you don't know
anything about programming don't worry
about it this this is your moment here
and so what you'll see behind me is a
step-by-step idea on how you can get
into this market how you can find a job
in this industry and so the first step
if you don't know anything about a
programming language is learning a
programming language
now it's not difficult within a day you
know the basics it's really easy to do
that it's all about logic if you can't
think in a logical way then learning a
programming language is something very
easy and I would start with JavaScript
and they're all by the way very similar
so there's no big differences between
one language and the other I would start
with JavaScript because you can develop
something that is easily visible on a
screen or so and then if you know
JavaScript I would go over into Python
because that's what a lot of crypto
companies or platforms are using there
is lot there is a lot of help free help
on YouTube for example just Google
JavaScript courses and you'll find
multitude of them and you'll see why the
reviews of there are serious ones are
not
there's also professional organizations
like Coursera or EDX that offer from
universities like Harvard or similar
courses on programming just run through
a few of them learn as much as you can I
said and the basics you know them within
one day once you've got that knowledge I
would focus on blockchain so let's take
a theorem which is the one that most
people are certain you are using and
searching for learn about the theorem
how easy theorem working look under the
hood they learn how they are currently
doing the proof of work what is this
smart contract all those things so that
that you can have a decent discussion
with somebody and you know more or less
what a theorem how the theorem platform
works once that's done and then of
course you have to dive deep into a
theorem programming so solidity and so
on or in future it will be VIPRE and
that is something that can also be
learned very fast there are also
specialist courses that offer this here
like udemy.com and and bit degree they
offer courses you also see the the
the reviews of people what they think of
those courses you can just I mean
they're not free but they're cheap 20
bucks for you
50 bucks it's not a big deal but my
favorite one is Ivan on tank because
he's been like the technical guru in
this industry on a lower level and his
courses are really fantastic because
he's office he offers everything from
the start so if you've got don't have
much knowledge just take his courses and
you'll get very fast to a level where
you do know what it is about after about
two months in this programming
environment
I can guarantee you know 99 percent more
than most of the people yeah so it's a
lot of superficial talk that you hear
about this crypto industry but because
it's a very young industry there is not
much knowledge out there and and you
don't want to become a Bitcoin developer
anyway which is tough you want to just
find a job then two months work should
do the job
now of course I put also up a list of
where to find a job so there are several
websites then that that offer already
now a job search I would visit them and
just I mean they've got the usual ones
and every country works different the
list that I have got here is of course
more America u.s. focused but every
country has got their own list of
developers that they're using so that's
for me today so it's very positive in a
sense that if you know if you want to go
into the blockchain industry if you know
about cryptocurrencies the the future's
bright I mean it's literally like that I
wish you good luck if you've got any
questions then just contact us and we
will see on how we can help you anyway
that's for me so back to the studio
thanks bye thanks Robert
just a reminder we're not giving away
financial advice here on the
category-five TV newsroom but instead
just trying to give you some information
and leaving it up to you to make the
decision Henry next story
github announced last week that all of
its core features are now available for
free to all users that means unlimited
private repositories with unlimited
collaborations for all including teams
that use a service for commercial
projects as well as up to 2,000 minutes
per month a free access to github
actions the company's automation and CI
CD platform teams that want more
advanced features like code owners or
enterprise features like saml support
will still have to upgrade to a pay plan
at this time but the pricing for those
plans has been slashed in half the
company has always taking a freemium
approach to its pricing model but since
its acquisition by Microsoft it started
to expand a number of features in its
free accounts github CEO NAT Friedman
stressed that this move had been long on
the roadmap and it isn't a limited
promotion motivated by the current covin
19 crisis he says this is something we
plan to do and have wanted to do for a
long time since we essentially did the
acquisition and now getting to this
point to do it took until now until it
became a high priority thanks Henry Jeff
what is going on with SETI at home
astronomers say they have all the data
they need in the search for
extraterrestrial life distributed
computer network SETI at home has ceased
scouring radio telescope data for signs
of extraterrestrials after 20 years
much like folding at home which is
currently acting as the world's most
powerful supercomputer in the fight
against the new coronavirus SETI at home
utilized a vast user donated network of
computers to analyze data but is now
heading into hibernation SETI at home
has been in operation since 1999 during
that time it has processed heaps of
radio telescope data collected from the
deepest depths of space and listened in
to narrowband radio signals in order to
track down anything out of the ordinary
to do so it relied upon the
contributions of computers from across
the globe graphics cards and powerful
CPUs in tow all working together in
order to learn of life beyond Earth
but don't you worry it's not shutting
down due to lack of interest in fact the
researchers based out of USC Berkeley
are inundated with the data but with no
need for further data the team of
astronomers will instead focus their
efforts on back-end analysis for later
publication in a scientific journal the
project's message boards will remain
operational but there's no longer any
need to task your gaming rig with the
search for extraterrestrials SETI at
home may one day return researchers are
eyeing up potentially eyeing up
potential use cases and will distribute
tasks in cosmology and pulsar research
research sometime in the future
nothing is set in stone however so it's
better to put your gaming PC to good use
researching elsewhere than leaving it
idling the SETI T at home team
recommends lending your help to folding
at home it's a critical task of
simulating the Cova 19 virus that
project is currently operating at 1.5
EXA flops of computing power kindly
donated from across the globe that's a
whole frontier supercomputers worth for
scale that sounds like a great use for
our GPU hey big thanks to BP 9 this week
as well as our community of viewers for
submitting stories thank you for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
and don't forget to Like and subscribe
for all your tech news with a slight
Linux bias and if you appreciate what we
do well you can become a patron at
patreon.com slash newsroom from the
category-five dot TV newsroom I'm Robby
Ferguson
well there you have it Studio E is up
and running category five technology TV
is on the air it's been great having you
here hey thank you so much for your
support of category five technology TV
I couldn't done this without you it's
great to be back and I'm looking forward
to everything that's gonna come out of
this space here at category fives new
studio hey don't forget to check out our
website category five dot TV if you're
looking for something to binge well this
show has been on the air for 13 years
and incidentally every single episode is
available for you absolutely free check
it out category five dot TV I'm already
looking forward to next week I'll be
here again on well the same time right
here that category five technology TV if
you can't wait that long of course get
on our website and join us for a
category five community coffee break at
this time it happens every single day so
I will see you as soon as tomorrow take
care everybody thank you so much for
being here and stay safe I'll see you
next week
