I thought I would show you something
that just is mind-bending how technology
can evolve something that we thought
could never get any better
and that's radio well when I was growing
up I used shoutcast like crazy I still
do show cast calm it's a great service
click on the directory and you got radio
stations from all over the place however
here's the thing terrestrial radio
stations also these days broadcast on
the internet most of them if not all of
them do and if that's the case what
would happen if somebody were to
aggregate all of the radio stations they
can find in the entire world I'm talking
thousands of radio stations and put them
together in a way that has never been
done before
that is radio garden check out radio dot
garden let's head there now what is
super unique about radio garden is that
when you start alright you ready let's
start it's going to find your geo
location on the planet Earth that's
where we are and it's going to take you
to your city and start playing a radio
station in your city now I've turned off
my speakers because I just don't want
the infringement copyright notice and
everything else however I don't need to
give you a tutorial on radio garden it's
so intuitive you're gonna figure it out
you're gonna find this is just amazing
hey there's the radio station Jeff and I
used to work at Life 100.3 in Barry so
this is an actual globe that you can
interact with so every Green Dot is in
fact a radio station like an FM or AM
radio station we're not talking like
well there are internet radio radio
stations I shouldn't say that but so
what you do is you zoom out and in with
your mouse wheel and then move around
the globe so if I wanted to hear in a
you know various areas of the states or
if I wanted to actually go overseas
right and let's say you know in let's go
a little south in the UK here let's head
over to hip switch let's zoom in and
there's funky little radio I don't know
if I said it right
Woodbridge unique sessions radio so
these are radio stations broadcasting
hey I don't need to give you the
tutorial check it out is radio dot
garden every single green dot is another
radio station if they're clustered too
close together hey you've got a list
over here and you can click and it will
load and it's so incredibly fast you can
also create a favorites list you can
search check it out I mean it's
intuitive it's incredible and and it
loads the radio stations faster than
anything I've ever seen before they've
done a fantastic job now this site this
service is being aggregated by a company
in Amsterdam the the Netherlands and
there is some information there about
them but they really like it's free for
all and there's nothing to it do check
it out no fuss no software to install
just enjoy radio from all around the
world that's radio dot garden
