what's a what's a tablet good for these
days surfing the web it's a bigger
screen than your phone I mean this is
obviously much bigger than a phone and
this is you know this is just the the
smallest version of the the new Kindle
not the Kindle the Amazon fire you've
got me thinking Kindle now I know I so
yes a question what's it good for I
think a lot of people are using it as a
laptop replacement you think so you see
so many now with Bluetooth keyboards and
I think I'm Jeff show me what you what
you're actually using with your phone
right now so which is my phone I have a
Bluetooth keyboard from Logitech yeah
and it's just bluetooth and so I can use
my phone if I had a tape I don't like
the replacement for the laptop isn't it
yeah yep pretty much yeah I think that's
why a lot of people use a tablet they
don't have to worry about a laptop well
and for social media like if you're
going on Facebook Twitter and stuff like
that having something like this is
really really nice okay so a couple of
quick first impressions of the fire
seven from Amazon I have to say I mean
my wife is plant-based and and cares
about you know the animal products and
things the case that you buy with it is
felt it's fabric it's not leather a lot
of stuff isn't it funny that like that
that's actually like a consideration
these days yes it's not I love it it's
not funny to me at all cuz that's how I
roll well I say that like it's like that
times have changed right like the design
of that car I have to say it looks like
it's creased in a way that it would it
would work as a prop it's a stand yeah
but but as far as the fabric goes I mean
it is I say it's funny but really it's
like it's an actual consideration that
there's no like it's not made of leather
and when you start actually looking at
that and realizing like when I'm
shopping Christmas gifts guys for my
wife who is not interested in leather
it's it's really surprising to find that
like every phone case has made of
leather
it's ridiculous and so the finding that
this is like a fabric is like a cotton
fabric is nice and yes you're right
Sasha this axe
as a stand so it stands up the the
tablet like that or also stands it up
this way so how does it operate I mean
really what it boils down to is these
are twenty to thirty percent cheaper
than traditional Android tablets I got
the 7-inch version here there's also an
8 inch and a 10 inch version and you
know how do they look how do they
perform what is the caveat to purchasing
an Amazon fire tablet and I always
thought wouldn't it be that it's all
branded Amazon it's all a hundred
percent Amazon and I'm not going to be
able to install any of my apps right
does isn't that like the biggest concern
that we kind of have to address today
right but doesn't it have an Android
operating system on it it does however
it's called fire OS it's been rounded
it's been stripped down a lot of the
features have been removed there is no
Google Play Store there is instead the
Amazon App Store and the Amazon App
Store is vast and it may be absolutely
sufficient for you but if you're an
Amazon user and pardon me not an Amazon
user but a Google Android user you might
want to look for things like chrome like
you want your browser right so let's do
a quick search here for chrome within
the the Amazon App Store and I get a
search engine
I get like I'm not getting the Chrome
browser right it's not available to me
another one that is a big caveat for me
is like YouTube so let's do a search for
YouTube and when I do a search I get
video for youtube I get like I'm getting
search results but not apps right but I
mean there aren't any apps like the
proper app for YouTube is not available
right but that's because of the war
between Google and Amazon I mean when is
it a war yeah as far as applications I
mean even between like the Google home
and the Amazon echo devices yeah you
can't access like google music or
anything like that
sure okay fair enough fair enough so I
mean Amazon has has separated that
entirely there's this wall that goes
it's Google not having it which is a big
concern to sure
heavily into Google yes yeah and so I
say that I want to give you that caveat
in that this is my concern with
purchasing an Amazon fire tablet this is
what I feel like I'm gonna be limited to
I'm not gonna be able to have access to
YouTube and Chrome and things like that
and then you realize so I want to show
you this folks because I want you to
know that you can save twenty to thirty
percent by purchasing one of these
because what I've actually done is I've
installed Google Play oh yes you apk as
an apk so so what I've done is I've
activated third-party apk installers and
I've simply downloaded the four apk
files it's very quick and information a
cat5 dot TV slash fire is going to show
you how to do that but now I've got
Google Card me Google Play installed so
then I installed through that Google
Chrome right so I've got Chrome properly
installed and I've got the actual
official YouTube app as well so all of
those things are available through that
third-party installation if you activate
oh and look we're live Oh
trippy whoa that's actually me right now
wow that's funny
whoa stream today
[Laughter]
pretty quick yeah oh yeah I mean even
even from loading it and streaming it
that's only a few seconds behind and
that's just the YouTube map no no I get
that but the point is like it loaded
quickly there and it was instant play
there wasn't a lot of buffering so that
tells you from a a hardware standpoint
that it can keep up fairly well oh yeah
specifications wise Jeff I mean it's a
quad-core processor and it's got a gig
of ram and and and now a couple of
things I mean of course you're you're
always limited to the storage capacity
of these types of devices but this one
does have an SD I better I better turn
off my screen first if I pull it out of
the case you can see that it does have a
microSD port so you can stick a micro SD
card in there up to 512 gigabytes so
that's gonna give you a ton of storage
right for your apps or pictures it does
have a forward facing and rear facing
camera you can see all the specs at cat5
dot TV slash fire and that's going to
show you like some information about the
specifications now the 7-inch has got a
mono speaker the eight-inch has got
stereo speakers and Dolby sound it's
gonna have better sound presumably and
the 10-inch of course is like miles
above but realistically I mean when it
comes down to the price these things
like the the one caveat that I had the
one concern that I had was being limited
to Amazon software but then realizing
that you know what I can install the
Google Play Store through an apk right
and then I can install anything that is
available in Google Play every it has
completely untied my hands as far as
this tablet goes so now I'm able to
purchase the tablet for twenty thirty
percent less than the equivalent
specification price like if I was to buy
just an Android tablet and it's pretty
good it's it's pretty decent I'm I gotta
say I'm pretty impressed
of course it's got bluetooth so I
connect it to my Bluetooth speakers that
gives me better sound because the sound
in the seven-inch is pretty yeah you
know it's a little speaker down here
right as you would expect and as silly
as it is so this is the case that you
buy separately even though it's a great
case it covers the speaker so so if I
was listening to a podcast you can't
close the lid and I closed the because
typically I would listen to my podcast
like that well this there there isn't an
opening for the speaker which i think is
stupid that's the one the one flaw I
found so far
no it's just that can it's such a simple
thing right and you swap the tablet
around within the case because it seems
fairly no like it could but there
buttons on the side are they on the top
no they're on the top but that's not
gonna make a difference Jeff because at
least there's an opening here when the
cases Club is open on this side there's
not
oh right cuz that's actually in the case
yeah it's in the case itself so it's
just one of those like they didn't think
that through that's the one thing they
didn't think through but that's the case
that is sold separately so this is a $20
case which as you say sasha is is pretty
cool because it does work as a stand so
you can watch your shows like that and
it stands it up and you can watch your
shows like that or surf the web or
whatever you want to do and it works
very very well and it's magnetic as well
it clasps like it it kind of clips on
and doesn't open up alright it's it's
pretty nice I really do like the case I
just don't like the fact that when you
close the case you lose the speaker
right
that's the only thing okay now we have a
question in the chat room I mean you've
talked about adding apps through apks
what about uninstalling and removing the
onboard apps that it comes with is there
that ability or you stuck with what
amazon has put on there oh yeah good
question okay so let's say I mean I
don't know like there's not I'll say
this there's not a lot of cruft and by
cruft I mean like excess stuff that you
just don't need like it
really really nice to be able to pull up
like there is like books with Kindle
there's Amazon music right like you've
got all this you've got access to all
this stuff and it's gonna log into my
Amazon account presumably Amazon music
Prime it's got Prime it's got Prime
video everything else so do you really
want to remove that stuff I don't know
but can you let's try so let's grab
books and there is an uninstall button
up here which is disabled oh so you
cannot uninstall it right ok which is
pretty typical of any tablet the like
branding right and disabled even if you
can't oh sure uninstall it so I mean
it's interesting that they won't even
let you like there's not even a disable
popping up oh well the thing is Jeff
that you could install a new dashboard
for example and be able to control the
icons that you see right so as far as
disabling goes it's really just about
shortcuts right but these are just the
basic as I say so don't let that be
something that makes you go you know
like oh it has the silk browser well you
can install Chrome and then you can set
Chrome as the one that is the icon that
is you know like I can put the Chrome
browser right there and take silk and
get it out of there right and so now
chrome as far as my screen goes is the
is the browser that I see right so and
again you can you could because I now
have google play I could install other
environments as far as the the dashboard
goes so I can make it look a little bit
more to my liking as well get rid of
some of the stuff that I don't need I
can tell you at home that the one thing
we use our tablet for is just video
chatting with like Dave's family
you're on Finland and this would work
perfectly for that right like it's the
right size and yep yeah I think so yeah
sure it's
sort of thing I'd like for Christmas no
I don't know what all you have explored
with this device as far as the software
goes I mean maybe this is a new device
for you but what about things like the
virus virus protection and I mean I know
what the it's Android yeah no no I
understand that but now that you've got
Google on there you can install you know
your ESET or something like that yeah
with what it comes as a base software
because it's kind of been cleaned out
Android is it still safe or is there
some holes in there now because of the
Amazon proprietary stuff no no nothing
like that Jeff oh yeah yeah and and as
as you say so like ESET so and now and I
would just as you were talking I was
like oh well how does the forward facing
camera look and it looks like okay so
let's let's bring up the apps sorry I'm
gonna say Google Play right yeah and
there we go and getting lost here there
so it's down at the bottom now that I've
installed it I can move it up and let's
do a search for ESET because like now
I've got Google Play installed right so
why would I have any trouble installing
my ESET mobile security no you should I
just didn't know from from an actual
software standpoint if there was you
know some bells and whistles in the
removal process that probably needed
from a security standpoint like I don't
I don't like with because I my phone
runs Android and I'm constantly getting
the updates another su-kyong security
patch and I don't know how on top of the
updates and security patches this well
because it's an it's not quite Android
I'm using fire OS yeah I hear ya and so
a part of it is saying yeah I trust
Amazon is gonna keep things up to date
and and I think that it comes down to I
can buy a tablet like an Android tablet
from some Chinese manufactured like
company that does not support there's
stuff right and and I've been there
where like the some of the set-top boxes
that I bought that are Android based
become obsolete a year later and you
cannot update them because they're not
supported by the manufacturer right
this is Amazon like they're going to
support it it's going to be supported so
you know that even if it's not stock
Amazon stock Android it's going to have
support in the fire OS as well now I
suppose it would be compatible like I
have a fire stick at home yeah and then
if I had the tablet I can start watching
the show on my fire stick yep and
continue watching it on the tablet
that's right and you can actually take
what's called so if you bring up say
Prime video for example Sasha yeah you
can use what's called second screen in
order to cast it's basically like mirror
casting to your Amazon fire stick that
said there is a lack of miracast
capabilities within this device so if
you're looking to be able to cast how
would you say so if you're watching
video it's going you're gonna be able to
cast it sure but if you want to cast the
whole screen like here tonight for
example here live on category 5 TV I'm
having to hold it up to a camera right
right I'm not able to cast this to your
screen because it does not support
miracast that's kind of a difference
that you would say that there is between
a true Android tablet versus this one
but is that going to affect the average
user probably not I think that's only
going to affect the broadcaster because
you can bring up prime video you can
bring up YouTube once you've got it
installed and you can cast that to your
ear display if you've got a smart TV or
I've got a chromecast or something like
that it's like practically perfect in
every way
well theoretically nothing you had this
device because I have a question about
targeted advertising but I don't know
how long you've had it I haven't had it
long but I have a feeling I know where
you're going where do you think well I
know that there is ads like as it's an
Amazon device right so right you do
sometimes get some ads and if you long
press on the ad you can actually disable
them so just keep that in mind
right and so not necessarily the ads but
what I'm thinking is because we now live
in you know a world where there's more
and more connected Amazon devices yeah I
mean for years we've been dealing with
the whole
you know Google tracking so to speak
where you know you google something and
suddenly is popping up on odds or sugars
just talking about what does the same
thing happen with this because it's an
Amazon device is it reading all the
stuff that you're doing and said no
while getting targeted oh gosh Jeff this
is a legit question for people who are
concerned about that privacy in the and
targeted advertisers right because it's
an Amazon device I just didn't know if
there's some extra targeting that you've
noticed like maybe these things so we're
shipping these things to your house
immediately
right yeah no more than you're already
used to write like this is the world
that we live in so yes if you are
searching through Amazon it's going to
track kind of what you're looking at and
then it's gonna provide advertising for
it right because there is shopping and
stuff like that of course
okay but it's no it's no different than
what we're already used to and and I
should say one of the things because
some people are like hey well what what
difference is there as far as the it
does have a lack
play some music
everybody's devices going off yeah I'm
sorry okay so whatever I don't want it
okay that's fine
elec what's the weather forecast so like
things like that to be able to just talk
to my tablet it's kind of cool yes I
don't know if I talk too much maybe she
was still listening elect what's the
weather forecast I like that it shows me
it's a little more interesting than just
asking like just bringing up an app or
something like that and it's a lot it's
quite helpful as well and I've actually
used it to like you can brighten the
screen you can turn up the volume you
can do things like that like general
Android controls you can do by voice now
thanks to the Amazon echo integration
with the tablet as well which it takes
it to the next level for me makes it
easier for for kids to use or people
with visual issues right right oh yeah
but also being that I already have some
Amazon echo devices in my house I can
immediately start telling it to turn on
my Christmas tree or turn turn off the
lights in the living room you can
broadcast to the family through that I
can yeah or or do things like okay elect
ball you mate
I just want turn it up for you guys
Alexa what's the temperature inside
likes it hot folks but I got to pay the
bills so elect
set the temperature to 73 right like so
I'm doing that from my tablet from the
studio on the other side of town and it
that's just one feature but and then
from the Android perspective yes because
I can install Play Store I feel like
this is actually a valuable device and
I've saved 30 percent in order to buy it
so is that the official assessment that
you've got that it it does perform as
well as any of the other Android tablets
and it's worth it for the money is it
worth it for the money absolutely yes
okay and specifications wise it has some
great specs check it out cat 5 dot TV
slash fire and you're gonna learn all
about that but yeah specifications wise
they're fantastic for the price they
would for sure get here by Christmas if
Dave were to like order it yeah Dave
yeah oh no every single Dave who's
watching to send you one of those
