welcome to category five technology TV
the finale of season 12 this week we are
going to be looking at the Raspberry Pi
4 but specifically the thermals the
temperatures the throttling and we're
gonna learn about a case for the
Raspberry Pi 4 that is supposedly going
to bring those temperatures down for us
we're gonna find out if it's really
worth the extra money
stick around our live recordings are
trusted only to solid-state drives by
Kingston technology revive your computer
with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with hello stream wire cast and
nimble streamer tune in every week on
roku Kodi Plex and other HLS video
players for local show times visit
category 5 TV category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here cat 5 DV / TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV / i 8i be welcome
to the show everybody this is episode
number 625 what does that mean it means
I know where you're going with this jab
that's 12 seasons seasons of category 5
technology TV I died well yes at the end
of this so stick around for the next
hour because then we'll be able to say
season 12 seasons you ever seasons uh I
didn't not expect it but I didn't know
what I was getting into that's for sure
I mean here we are in our studio space
with great people around me and a great
viewership and wonderful viewers in the
community and here we are every single
week I got are we gonna reminisce twelve
seasons later well we'll talk a little
bit later okay so it's this week though
we are gonna be looking at the Raspberry
Pi 4 and specifically a little bit about
the thermal aspects of the Raspberry Pi
4 it's getting hot in here the Raspberry
Pi has been running
it's like yeah so it's 83 degrees here
in studios are dealing with gosh yeah I
know I don't do well with heat turn that
thing off it's probably good that our
air conditioning has been broken for the
past couple of weeks because this is a
thermal test of the Raspberry Pi but it
works out well for us in this particular
instance yes the Raspberry Pi 4 is known
to be a hot little piece of kit let's
just say that it gets hot and when it
does every rumor has it it throttles
itself yes so hey if she seems pretty
fast and then it gets hot it's gonna
throttle itself down and run a little
bit slower yep
stick it in the freezer and run cables
in and it's gonna run 1.5 gigahertz no
don't do that no condensation the proper
thing to do is to add a heatsink that's
what everybody's oh yeah I had a
heatsink to your Raspberry Pi 4 that's
the right thing to do well we haven't
done that tonight we're looking at the
Raspberry Pi for 4 gigabyte oh that is a
lot oh my goodness that's a little bit
of green smoke over there can you guys
smell that
you just crack an egg and the egg fries
on top of the Raspberry Pi for I did
actually put my hand on top of that case
over there just before the show and I
could feel the heat coming off of it I
could feel that it was a little bit warm
not warm enough to melt the plastic that
goes but it is it is getting a little
bit warm so we'd like to actually see if
we're able to heat up that Raspberry Pi
4 by simply running a stress test and
what that's going to do is it's going to
run the the CPU as hard as we can
possibly run it we're gonna basically
bring this thing to its knees
see if we can get it to get hot and see
if we can get it to throttle that's the
thing because we've heard so you know
rumor has it if you've been looking at
the Raspberry Pi for as perhaps a
desktop replacement or even just
something to have on the desktop as a
computer maybe a set-top box it'd be
great for that it's got two 4k HDMI
outputs so you can hook up to TVs
theoretically that's the idea I mean
it's a powerful little beast
except then then it's gonna get hot if
it gets hot does it throttle itself
which means it takes the speed and turns
down the speed in order to keep it cool
I'm gonna jump over here just really
really quickly so I'm just working my
way over on the set I just want to
quickly show you that inside of this
case is a bare naked Raspberry Pi 4 and
what I mean by that is there is no
heatsink and it is running it's been
running for about an hour here at studio
D and we've purposefully got it that way
so that we can run some thermal tests
and find out where this thing is gonna
fall as far as the temperature and the
frequency and frequency refers to in
this case how fast is the processor
running all right so the base frequency
of a Raspberry Pi 4 is like 600,000 so
that is 600 megahertz so 0.6 gigahertz
to put that into current standards so
I've actually got this up on my computer
screen I've ssh in and i have a tool on
NEMS linux so this tool is open-source
you're welcome to use it port it
whatever you want to do however it does
rely on the thermal data that's provided
by NEMS info part of the NEMS Linux
operating system which is a monitoring
system for raspberry PI's and other
devices single board computers and it's
it allows you to monitor networks you
can find out more even download it and
run these same tasks on your device at
NEMS Linux comm in the root folder of
nems Linux is a folder called NEMS admin
and within that folder is a program
called NEMS
stress nem stress uses the linux stress
command in order to as I said bring this
thing to its knees it's going to detect
how many cores there are on the
processor and then say we're gonna max
all those cores out slam yeah just all
just unbelievable amounts of processing
so you don't want to do this on a on a
production system we're doing this on a
system that's sitting up on our bench
specifically to see the thermals and the
frequency so nem stress will report a
little bit of data that data is
collected by the the frequency the speed
of the processor has it been down
clocked and whether it is what the
temperature is so I'm gonna jump over
here because it is going to take about
five minutes to run so let's zoom in and
in that folder home slash routes slash
nemesis slash names admin I'm just gonna
run dot names and stress just like that
and we're gonna let that run and it is
going to take five minutes so it's
already activated them stress how do I
know that I can actually switch windows
here I have another terminal window
and I'm gonna type H top and let's look
at what is happening here you see that
processor it is maxed right out so we
were at a 1-1 load average we've now hit
10.38 and that load average is now
twelve point four three and climbing
fourteen point four and you see our four
cores on the Raspberry Pi four they are
100% maxed out we're bringing that thing
right to its knees right and if I task
back to our stress test it's just doing
its thing so if you didn't have the
second window open you would just see
that it's working away and yes yeah I
would just simply see this dot dot dot
dot dot dot but then I get the report at
the end Jeff right which we're going to
see and that data from the report is
very important to us so as I mentioned
is this is tracking with every little
iteration so basically every second it's
tracking things like thermal data the
frequency of the processor has
it scaled up has it scale down how has
the temperature increased and then
finally at the end what our averages are
Oh does it get does it also give you
like a real-time shot of oh it took this
long to hit max and then it doesn't know
it doesn't because it's just a 5 minute
average right all right so this is so
what I see is that and at the end is the
the general report you're going to see
that in just a couple of moments time
looking at H top again there it is still
sitting at 100% why are we doing this I
want to see so this is this is key we're
all interested in the raspberry pie for
yes what difference is it going to make
if we go with the stock case right right
versus something a little higher end why
would we want to spend 30 40 dollars on
a raspberry pie for case that's the
question that we're setting out to
possibly answer this week because the
alternative is throwing it in a freezer
that is that's a very expensive case
that uses a lot of electricity this is
true what of X ice cubes it's true this
is also true TV dinners are a thing
that's not currently a thing with our
solution that we have we're gonna find
out Sasha if we can cook a TV dinner
with this thing if we once this thing is
all said and done so the test is a
runnin you know this you know going back
to the fact that you know we're now like
the end of a season yeah 12 years the
fact that we can run a test for 5
minutes waiting for dots to compile on a
shorter this and we could just fill it
with conversation itself oh yeah
[Laughter]
actually on our script no okay okay so
dot as far as I'm just reading what I
see here fair enough but as far as these
tests are going what is it doing so let
first somebody who's running this test
that's going how is it heating it up
like why
check out the Linux stress command so
nems stress what it does is it creates
several instances
of the stress command which maxes out
the processor and it creates I don't
know I think it's nine instances of it
and each of those instances pushes every
single core of the processor so it works
it really really hard it's just a CPU
test and the only reason is to see does
the CPU get hot and does it throttle is
it easy to accidentally do this with a
stress test like to accidentally like
how many tabs do you have open in the
Google Chrome that's the question right
yeah yeah because the thing is it seems
limitless it seems like something you
would just you'd ask it to do a lot and
then all of a sudden it would get hot
and it would slow it down sash is like I
don't know if nem stress is running so
I'm gonna run it again just see how that
goes so this week we actually have an
Aled we know aluminum case that I'm
going to Anne robe the Raspberry Pi for
in okay and the eyelid we know case now
we've seen these before for the
Raspberry Pi 3s and I absolutely love
the aluminum nature of these because
they're they're heat dissipating they're
very well-constructed they're very
attractive aesthetically and now with
the Raspberry Pi for what's happened is
the Raspberry Pi 3 cases are no longer
compatible correct we've seen that like
through the years Raspberry Pi has
maintained a fairly good consistency
from so you know a Raspberry Pi 2 and
then upgrade to a Raspberry Pi 3 you can
reuse the same case and just get the
upgrade well now with a Raspberry Pi for
you can't do that any guesses why that
is like from a no but from a from an
actual physical standpoint of the the
size is identical you have a little the
screw holes yeah no screw holes are in
the same place so what could it be what
could make it so that it's in whorls
your clothes different ports yeah it's
the dual HDMI so remember the Raspberry
Pi up until the Raspberry Pi for only
had a
Ingle full-sized HDMI now they have a
dual HDMI micro so you have to have a
special case in order to do that my
thermal test has completed okay well
this is the NEM stress test here's what
we know about the Raspberry Pi for
running as it is just in the standard
case and working that baby as hard as we
can lowest temperature was sixty nine
point six to seven degrees somebody's
got to write this down because we're
gonna have to refer back to this sixty
nine sixty nine point six to seven
degrees Celsius was the lowest
temperature so that CPU on the Raspberry
Pi three four was sitting at 69 degrees
before we ever started just sitting
there idle doing nothing okay then as it
went on it hit eighty five point six
nine eight degrees Celsius yeah now
interestingly the slowest speed at idle
was fifty one point five gigahertz so
when you see fifteen a hundred and what
is that 1,500,000 that is in fact one
point five gigahertz the top speed of
the Raspberry Pi without overclocking
right and then the maximum speed was the
same and when the board was hot
this is very interesting even when it
got up to eighty five point six nine
eight because I've heard that it will
throttle after eighty degrees
it didn't throw it not it didn't it
didn't throttle the frequency maintained
was 1.5 gigahertz you know is this the
first time you've run this test no I've
run it a few times just to see and this
is this is the result without a without
any kind of cooling system which is very
interesting because like you I've only
read the reviews and people talking
about how well if it gets hot it's going
to throttle and if it hits a eighty
degrees Celsius it's going to throttle
no is that is not a sustained time frame
well this was five minutes which I sure
maybe a kicks in at say ten minutes it
goes okay this has been too much I can't
handle you guys went away
no no I just like has anybody looked at
the programming within the raspberry
pi's firmware to look at where is that
throttling kicking in yeah I think
that's an interesting point now I do see
you know at first boot so I've had it
idling so to be fair the goal here was
to make it so that the two tasks would
be as close as possible so I've had it
idling for about an hour and with that
now when I first turned it on it was
sitting at 600 megahertz right now we do
see that even when I first started this
test it was running at 1.5 gigahertz so
something about the Raspberry Pi
maybe because NEMS is doing more things
than just sitting idle NamUs has Nagios
and everything else running and and a
MySQL server and Apache 2 and everything
else so there's a little more heft going
on so but it didn't ever scale down
right and I think Jeff the whole
intention but with throttling is that
when something gets hot it's going to
throttle down very quickly yeah you
would see that in that temperature
increase because that's a pretty big
temperature increase you would see so at
eighty five point six nine eight degrees
Celsius it still did not throttle over a
five-minute threshold so would it
throttle eventually if it's sat that way
for 30 minutes it's possible but this is
something that's happening in the kernel
this is something that's happening
actively and I didn't see it happen here
but how often would you you know be
using your PI to the point where you've
maxed it out for a sustained period
that's it that's why we're pushing this
to its knees we're doing this
specifically to see when it throttle
yeah would it get really really hot and
it didn't it didn't get super hot I've
seen Odroid Xu fours get hotter than 85
degrees right and sustain that happily
and not have a problem now this is an
interesting case because there's no heat
sink whatsoever and we're sitting at
about 85 degrees now getting a quick
look at this as
well we've got an average temperature of
78 point six seven oh pardon me six 373
you folks see that 78 point six three
seven three degrees the lower that is
the lower the temperature at heavy load
and the average frequency of course is
still one point five gigahertz it stayed
there and maintained it right right so
now I'm gonna halt the raspberry pi for
Coach is to shut it down
I've lost connection to the raspberry pi
4 and I'm gonna jump over here and we're
gonna get a look at this LED we know
case so as I make my way over here folks
we're gonna disconnect the raspberry pi
4 from its peripherals we've shut that
down using halt and let's get into this
case I can feel the heat coming off of
that
I mean 85 degrees oh yeah oh it feels
smoking you want to feel that yeah yeah
it's like showing to get your hands in
here so the interesting thing don't
touch the processor but anything else is
fair game
yeah it is pretty warm folks oh yeah
what's interesting about the Raspberry
Pi 4 is the heat dissipation occurs over
the entire main board so the PCB
dissipates the heat so that it is spread
over the entire main board and we're not
going to have it like the Raspberry Pi 3
where it's very much focused on the CPU
right so this board is designed in such
a way that it's trying to get that heat
off of the CPU and into the mainboard
and I can feel that very much so in the
in these peripherals and while I don't
have a thermal thermal scanner in order
to show you that I can tell you that
that's the case and I will tell you as
well that we are working on obtaining
such a device now this is the LED we
know aluminum case for the Raspberry Pi
4 and as I mentioned we have looked at
LED we know cases in the past I've been
very very pleased with them this is a
very nice aluminum case that looks
and doesn't that look interesting hey so
let's get a little further into the box
it's a little bit more in there there we
go
so this is these are just like non-slip
pads for the bottom of it and a
screwdriver so let's open this up you'll
notice with the Aled we know case for
the Raspberry Pi for there's a couple of
things of note here one is that it is
wall mountable do you see these wall
mounts yes so you can actually hang this
thing on the wall
also it has a touch sensor here that
allows you to control the the fans but
the fans are also thermally controlled
so as the Raspberry Pi 4 gets hot it's
going to increase the the speed of those
two fans right these are intelligently
controlled fans so let's get in here and
see what it what it looks like so the
screws are actually in here out of the
box there we are and there we have it so
you can see that this is not just these
are not just fans that are powered by
the GPIO these fans are going into a
controller circuit and that is going to
be connected to the Raspberry Pi fours
GPIO however it's much more
sophisticated than just direct like
power coming off of that and there we go
Raspberry Pi 4 is gonna go in there I
have not removed the SD card and it
looks like it's gonna just be a nice
snug fit look at that yeah can I like
the aluminum nature of these cases as
well because as we know aluminum does
what to heat takes it away it kind of
dissipates it and spreads it out doesn't
have how easy is this to install it's
very easy if you need the instructions
typed in there here if I need them I
have them I'll show those to Jeff after
the show what have you done
alright there is one thing in the
instructions that I need to know is how
do I wire up this circuit board Jeff or
Sasha maybe you have access to that
information
aha do I have access you feel like do
you close it before you wire it all to
get like oh there that's it that's done
okay I can see that there's a little bit
of a plastic film on this so I'm gonna
remove that if you ever get a new
electronic device and you wonder why it
looks scratched up it's probably this
plastic film yes so we did okay yeah you
put the look you completely assembled it
without plugging in it there you go
done well here's the GPIO because
remember the GPIO the camera output the
SD card everything is accessible right
here but and I can see the camera
connector there right and what colors
how am I going to connect this now red
is to what red is to pin four and four
so here's my GPIO on the Raspberry Pi
four so I've got pin 1 2 3 4 so pin 4
and blue or black so so that's all there
is to it blue or black is connected to
pin 6 that is correct all right so that
should be all there is to it so what I
like about this look at how sleek this
is that looks good I think so I like how
Aled we know has created a form factor
that is actually encased the Raspberry
Pi 4 yeah and it's like very low profile
I mean the facts I agree the USB ports
still stick out above the keys yeah do
you guys see that look at that so she
was a little bit smaller the cable is
kind of three more cables and different
colors and just yeah can you push that
in I don't know maybe you could maybe if
I maybe if I paid more attention when I
was putting it together think about that
as you're putting it together maybe you
could make that a little more
streamlined but yeah you're right the
the cable does stick out when it's
plugged into the GPIO so that's like the
one like man that was probably a design
flaw if you could say not really a flaw
but they could have made something that
was a little bit
or baseline yeah straight like flat but
if that's the only issue like come on
yeah really helpful if the cable is the
same color is the table really yeah
does that help like that touchpad you
can control the fan so what it's just a
matter of it's almost like a slider no
no it's just like a like a touch lamp
oh god you see Oh touch right there yeah
okay so I'm gonna plug back in the
ethernet okay there it is so Ethernet is
connected Dassin that looks sexy I'm
sorry guys but that is sleep oh that's
one wait it looks nice is it I like I
mean I'm a geek through and through but
that looks really nice yeah look at that
and there's the two HDMI micro outputs
that I was talking about yes plus you've
got the AV output still but HDMI micro a
little bit of a pain anyone who has ever
used HDMI micro if you're using an
adapter you're probably gonna be
hard-pressed to find an adapter that
will sit side by side with this instead
I would recommend that you find a cable
that has HDMI micro at one end and full
size HDMI at the other end I'm gonna
plug in the USB C which immediately
powered up these fans and looks like
it's good to go now if I touch that you
see what happens Jeff yeah so that's
just a quick little tap now is that feel
like what is there a lot of vibration
there's no vibration whatsoever there's
no sound I'm gonna hold this right up to
my mic you guys can see that
okay so there's when you touch it I'm
gonna set this down and come over to the
set if you want to bring us up to to the
wide shot there yeah now when you touch
the button to activate the fans yeah did
they like are they gonna stay on
permanently or will the computer take up
they're gonna yeah it's gone over the
circuitry is going to spin it up if it
gets hot right spin it down if it gets
cold and and it's gonna automatically
adjust and worry about like oh I turned
it on I forgot to turn it off it's not
like that oh no no and by default as
soon as the Raspberry Pi is powered
so if the power goes out and you don't
have a UPS or like a PI Voyager from
arms low connected to your Raspberry Pi
then it will automatically turn back on
the fans right so what say we should run
those same tests yes and see how the
thermals are affected on the Raspberry
Pi for having placed this in the arm in
the LED no case with the fans
hypothesize you think this is gonna work
this is going to run cooler oh I'm
really curious to know straight out of
the box stick around we'll be right back
[Music]
before the break we looked at the
Raspberry Pi 4 we ran it through an EM
stress test and we brought it to its
knees we got it really really hot to the
point where you know even touching it we
could feel that even the USB ports the
the ethernet jack was really really hot
yes now we've put an LED no case this is
an aluminum case with two intelligent
fans on the Raspberry Pi 4 and with this
you know the question is you know are we
skewing results by you know we had it
off for three minutes while we were
installing it did that make a difference
I don't think it really did I mean maybe
like micro amounts but fact is is that
the system is going to heat back up
again as soon as we hit that with an EM
stress test it'll be interesting to see
if the temperature reaches the eighty
five point six nine eight degrees that
it got before I'm really curious what
was the starting temperature of our test
with the with no heatsink no nothing it
was sixteen point six to seven sixty
nine point six to seven so back at NEMS
Linux I can actually type MEMS
info temperature
forty five point two seven okay
forty five point two seven is what it is
right now and it's it's running yeah
okay so that's won't you don't need to
write that one down because that one's
not a part of our names stressed
fair enough so the distress test has not
begun but we know we're 20 degrees
cooler that's a big deal that's huge
yeah
forget the FIR the firmware update that
supposed to drop it by like three
degrees yeah so what so what is the
let's just say names
info frequency and see we are at 600
Hertz right yeah that's where you start
at 600 megahertz pardon me that's where
you start up a flying new this the other
one was at 600 Hertz but by the time we
started the test it was already running
a one by five so yes it has made a
difference in those numbers as soon as
we run the stress test it's going to
immediately throttle up we're gonna see
that and again I can see that if we look
at our other in the next window here so
we see our current load average is zero
point one three
shall we begin our test yes so this is
on the Raspberry Pi four with the LED we
no case I'm gonna run nems stress and
here we go the stress test has begun
let's jump back over here and we see
that we are sitting at 100% CPU usage
now just because we want to do this
quickly Jeff NEMS info temperature fifty
five point nine nine one already okay
and averaging okay so the Cisco
fifty-six yeah and I can actually type
watch and I can see that temperature
change so fifty-seven point four five
see if that changes as the stress test
goes on fifty-eight point and it's a you
know it's fluctuating up and down a
little bit see that 59 point four so
we're hitting higher numbers now I can
also check the frequency in real time
and remember my stress test is happening
in another window okay so I'm SSH tin
using two different windows here so I
can type frequency and see what I'm
sitting at so I'm at 1.5 gigahertz so
in pretty much immediately it says okay
there's a lot of stuff happening let's
crank up the CPU because the Raspberry
Pi smart and says well we don't need all
that processor power so we're gonna
clock it down to 600 megahertz but as
soon as you start the stress test of
course our base our base speed is gonna
be 1.5 gigahertz right because that's
the speed that it's gonna clock to now
one of the questions we had in from
Ameritrade when you were Ryan AirDroid
when you were running the first test yes
is is NIMS checking the speed of all of
the SOC course no it is not it is just
no it is not the so what he's asking
there are four cores right are we
checking the thermals and the speed of
every single one of those four cores to
answer that question accurately the only
way to do that would be to look at
source code though okay so nano ET snow
user slash local slash nem slash NEMS
script slash info dot h user local share
I miss the share share frequency and
that's pulling from CPU zero so could
that be different
let's asking about the speed that is the
frequency okay guy so that's that's
exactly what I'm about to show you so
that test is still running here and
let's go back to this so we are only
looking at CPU 0 which is the first core
oh pardon me I need to cap that that is
sitting at 6600 mega Hertz right now
interesting let's go to CPU 1 is it 1.5
okay there Hertz CPU 260 600 megahertz
CPU 3 so you see how averages are
causing this to have us a different
impact 1 2 3 so that is so so 0 1 2 0 1
2 3 is your 4 cores of the processor
right so we have there was three of them
at 600 yeah at that moment right because
we're right at the end of the tab
so the tests were winding down and so
three of the cores had clocked back down
to 600 megahertz one of the cores was
still running at 1.5 gigahertz but I
think what you'll find is in those
instances it's going to be clocked high
so our lowest temperature was forty
three point three to nine degrees
Celsius Jeff how does that compare to
the Raspberry Pi without the Allard we
no case Jeff so we were without the L
adrenal was we're at sixteen nine point
six to seven as a starting base yeah now
as a factor of variability into this it
was running for an hour without that
case but to be fair it was only shut off
for five minutes as we exactly yeah
exactly so I mean there could be some
variation but the little bit it started
with the fans already running and the
aluminum cans already cooling it down
sure so it started a little lower base
fair enough but look at that man it's
twenty six degrees less than the base of
the Raspberry Pi without that case okay
looking at the highest temperature we're
sitting well we hit sixty one point
three four eight degrees Celsius
sixty-one was the top temperature of the
raspberry pi just less than the starting
temp without the case before that is
worth it I would say that's astounding
that's cool all right what else have we
got here now slowest speed if you will
is 1.5 gigahertz the maximum speed also
1.5 gigahertz it never fell below 1.5
gigahertz now do you guys want to touch
this okay because we've just run this
through a major stress test just like we
did with the PI before it should be
significantly different
yeah it's significantly different do you
want to feel this guy's I feel like I
have to because we felt that before and
here they come I'm off the set
yeah they're heading over there but you
can't see that that you know that kind
of just feels like pulling a wallet out
of your back pocket yeah that's a
there's nothing
there's nothing no heat what so it's
like cool that's interesting how do you
like that the LED no case is aluminum
and it is it has the dual fans that are
intelligent that will spin up as it gets
hotter maybe that's why we're seeing the
dropped from okay we hit 77 and then all
of a sudden 48 how'd that happen the
fans said yeah let's make this happen
guys if there's a way to log the fan
rotations oh let's do all these things
folks let's do all these things because
that would be fun to see like just going
but graph that but maybe it's a game you
know a car engine where it's like you're
look you can't see the movement it's
going so fast but the difference between
you know 2,000 rpms and 3,000 rpms is a
big difference what it still looks the
same
yeah and no sound no like no perceptible
vibration or anything like that and of
course the board itself is solid-state
so is the LED no case worth the extra
money
that's a yes well I don't even I don't
want to say it I want you to say it
think about it for just a second is it
worth it yes yes accept accept oh wait
for this folks there wasn't a problem
and functionality with the last one it
got hot but it didn't change the
function mmm
interesting point but by keeping it cool
or you're gonna prolong life sure you
are
that's but the other thing we we didn't
test we talked about it with the first
test is maybe it's where it's been a
sustained time frame of you know five
minutes or something that we're gonna
round this thing NEMS stress is
available on any mm server just edit it
make it lots of problems yeah this is
for you
NEMS stress edit it folks
first thing how long do you want to run
it for Jeff ever okay that's all you
need to change that's all you need to
change I'm serious David I'm gonna write
that out I'm gonna
that dot slash NEMS stress running the
test for Linux from Nimes Linux comm
yeah if you want to run the test on your
own board I I'm with I'm with Jeff on
this one I don't see any downside to the
board I mean it does cost you a little
bit extra but you are gonna you're gonna
extend the life of the Raspberry Pi and
when you're running something like an MS
Linux server if you want to use it as a
set-top box if you want to use it for
plex Pi for example even as a retro PI
gaming system yeah the cooler it can run
the better it's going to perform because
yeah there are other peripherals too
that get hot think about the USB like it
has USB 3 and you're gonna have a hard
drive connected to that because it's 10
times faster than USB 2 right so you may
as well connect a drive to that and you
want the best performance but so it's
not just the CPU that's going to be
affected by heat but also as Jeff
mentioned the longevity of the board
itself how long will it live it looks so
I mean if you're gonna be a responsible
PI owner actively cool it there it is
folks that's the Raspberry Pi 4 with the
LED no case we've got a head over to the
newsroom Sasha if you're ready for us
yeah excellent here are the stories were
covering this week in a category 5 TV
newsroom Facebook has confirmed that at
least 200 million phone numbers from
members have been exposed in an online
database it could be more than twice
than that an estimated 600,000 GPS
trackers for monitoring the location of
kids seniors and pets contain
vulnerabilities that open users up to a
host of creepy attacks to protect query
privacy Mozilla will begin a slow
rollout of DNS over HTTPS by default in
its Firefox browser at the end of the
month moving all DNS queries to
CloudFlare
and a blind man has helped develop a
smart cane that uses Google Maps and
sensors to navigate the world these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category
five dot TV newsroom covering the week's
top textes thusly Linux bias I'm Sacha
Rickman and here are the top stirs were
following this week Facebook has
confirmed at least 200 million phone
numbers from members have been exposed
in an online database it could be more
than twice than that yes we took a break
from Facebook's weekly data leaks these
past few weeks but we weren't joking
when we said it continues to happen the
company said that it is now
investigating trying to figure out who
compiled this database of anywhere from
200 to 400 million phone records
leaving it online unprotected it's not
believed to have been compiled or put
there by Facebook the database of
telephone numbers and Facebook IDs was
discovered on an unprotected web server
and was not password protected database
was taken offline after the new site
TechCrunch reported the issue to the web
hosting company in April 2018 Facebook
switched off a feature that let people
search for other users by typing in
their phone number
the company said malicious actors abused
the feature by typing in millions of
phone numbers to find out who owned them
it said that they had been harvesting
profiles and phone numbers for years by
abusing the search tool and that anybody
who had not changed their privacy
settings after adding their phone number
should assume their information had been
harvested
okay so understand how this happens
right like you know that checkbox that
says allow people to find me by my phone
number yeah yeah so 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0
0 0 0 2 and just cycle through right
right a bot to do that and boom it
harvests all these so it's not a data
breach per se it's that that check box
that allows them to find you if they
know your phone number
allowed anyone to to harvest based on
box
just spite it's like that bought dialers
right angel dialers they call them I
remember those yeah so remember when we
used to get a lot of solicitor calls and
it was just random used to well it
shouldn't be too high now but then again
I'm on Magic Jack so I would say at
least once a week I get a call from the
Canada Revenue Agency oh there's a
warrant for your arrest
take that one seriously then there's
always the guy calling to clean my tux
know that all I've got is geese Wow and
he doesn't figure that one that couldn't
figure it out no a year on bail then no
virgin virgin yep some kind of Sadducees
magicJack yeah and we've changed our
number before it's just a button and I
will say you just log in and push a
button and it gives you a new phone
number it it does not happen with Magic
Jack because we have Magic Jack for our
home address we have since 2010 yeah
that have never once had a spam call on
it I have but you can block them you can
just log in again and to the interface
on the website I I don't have them block
that I've never had it never have good
so I'm yeah it's fairly rare I'd like to
know who put their phone number on
Facebook a lot of you have to in order
to authenticate your account oh really
yeah at one point you didn't have to I
don't think I had to yeah well you are
not on Facebook now I am not on Facebook
so I can't check was on face but I could
be wrong I mean I've only ever sign up
for Facebook on an app hmm I think if
you do it on the web you don't require a
cellphone because obviously they can't
text your cellphone and be like oh is
this correct yeah I think but it could
be wrong I don't know it was a security
concern though I'm pretty sure I raised
it on the show before yeah
how Facebook was forcing people to
provide phone numbers in order to
confirm that they are who they are
and that's fairly common practice
YouTube is the same you cannot be a
YouTube creator without providing a cell
phone a cell phone number
oh just have a lid I have to be able to
SMS you now they really well you can
activate it with a home fault like with
a phone number and the robot will call
you and say this is Google your
authentication code is huh so yes my
mistake yeah you can do that however in
my case I had already done that a few
times with other accounts and so my
personal phone number was maxed out like
you're allowed to do it four times or
something like that yeah it's like
activating windows you can only do it a
hundred times come on now right yes of
course I only have one computer running
Windows 10 yeah software piracy an
estimated 600,000 GPS trackers for
monitoring the location of kids seniors
and pets containing vulnerabilities that
open users up to a host of creepy
attacks the 25.20 5 to $50.00 devices
are small enough to wear on a necklace
or stash in a pocket or card -
compartment many also include cameras
and microphones they're marketed on
Amazon and other online stores as
inexpensive ways to help keep kids
seniors and pets safe ignoring the
ethics of attaching a spying device on
people that we love there's another
reason for skepticism vulnerabilities in
the t8 mini GPS tracker locator and
almost 30 similar model brands from the
same manufacturer shenzhen i 365 Tec
makes users vulnerable to eavesdropping
spying and spoofing attacks that falsify
users true location
researchers at Avast threat lab found
that ID numbers assigned to each device
were based on its International Mobile
Equipment Identity or IMEI even worse
during the manufacturing devices were
assigned precisely the same default
password of one two three four five six
the design allowed the researchers to
find more than 600,000 devices actively
being used in the wild with that
password and as if that wasn't bad
enough the device is transmitted all
data in plaintext using
commands that were easy to
reverse-engineer the result people who
are on the same network as the
smartphone or web-based app can monitor
or modify sensitive traffic one command
that might come in handy sends a text
message to a phone of the attackers
choice an attacker can use it to obtain
the phone number tied to a specific
account from their attackers on the same
network could change the GPS coordinates
the tracker was reporting or forced the
device to call a number of the attackers
choice and broadcast any sound within
range of its microphone other command
commands allow devices to return to
their original factory settings
including the default password or to
install an attacker chosen firmware and
for those of us familiar with
man-in-the-middle attacks here's a scary
one a simple command allows attackers to
change the IP address of the server that
the tracker communicates with the
researchers said that they privately
notified the vendor of the t8 mini GPS
tracker of the vulnerabilities On June
24th and never got a response so ok I'm
gonna get myself in trouble go ahead
Jeff do you think it's by design Oh Jeff
don't go there no it's stupidity and
cheap and cheap product I'm gonna say
it's for monitoring
no no because proper monitoring solution
that you're alluding to that I know
you're alluding to is going to be
encrypted and they're gonna be the data
is going to be hidden in packets just
going to some server but I mean you
could be right in maybe I'm just like
you know going into the dark conspiracy
theories of my mind but to have
something that simple all the same
password like so easy to me that is a
inferior product that they said let's
leave this open to be able to collect
the data access from anywhere I don't
buy it
I yield state no I I'm not I like to
think that people are inherent
like good yes no matter what culture
they're from no matter what background
they're from that's what I believe I
actually could see the benefit of these
if properly right right this is see the
good in it and it sure to me like it
feels to me to have Alzheimer's patient
exactly sure but people who are wonder
resks they think that they're going
somewhere that I mean they think they're
going home and they're living in a
completely different City yeah and
they're just wandering down the street
and it's a panic until you find them
we've had tragedies I mean we're up here
in Canada we've had winter tragedies
where if somebody has gone lost from
from a retirement home and they found
them out in the middle of the ice exact
months later and it's tragic and like
these kind of so it this as somebody has
created a wonderful idea
yes but didn't have the knowledge or the
finances financial backing to implement
it correctly because it can cost tens of
thousands and more to be able to develop
the software correctly so what I hope
doesn't happen is I hope that they don't
take a story like this and have a fear
for a tool like this yeah used correctly
in a safe secure way this could really
help keep you know a people at risk safe
including pets right yeah it can help
Jeff doesn't want to believe it here's
why I don't believe it okay no response
again if you are a if I can back up just
a second my if from my eyes this could
be a company that has developed a really
cool product and they who knows what
their company is like it could be a
start-up it could be but they've sold it
to us like this is a shenzhen company so
we know this is a Chinese company and
how many Chinese companies are there
lots good luck getting a hold of one of
them in an event of support issue if
there's five people working for the
company they built something really cool
they unfortunately have sold a quarter
of a million of them
yeah it's a great idea but but they've
done it incorrectly from a security
perspective still not buying it I'm
sorry the fact that you can log in and
change even the reporting IP address
tells me just how flexible the backend
software is and if that's the case they
should be able to push an update or
something let's just say that the person
who does that has to be pretty
knowledgeable about tech and yeah
there's two things that I know about
humanity one everybody's born good yes
and two everybody's born stupid and we
have to get past that we have to learn
two things one to ignore bad and remain
good and to become intelligent and and
by intelligent intelligence is relative
and knowledge is what I'm referring to
so so the the the person who developed
this product or persons who developed
this product I believe or are gonna be
good their intentions are good that's my
personal belief because that's what I
would
that's what I'd rather believe about the
world almost like they had a great raw
idea and they took that idea and they
just plopped it into the market as
opposed to polishing it it's almost like
you know they released it in step one
and it needed to go through another 20
steps or I have the great idea I don't
know how to program I'm gonna hire
somebody fresh out of school who has no
idea about cybersecurity yeah and
they're gonna be the ones to do it
because they can do it cheaper I would
love these things like I used to to have
one in my car would be great as a
security yeah factor right so that if my
car ever gets stolen I can always not
that my car's gonna get stolen it's not
even but but then I could track it or
sure on my person so that if I get
stolen
somebody can track me Dave you got the
app all right what do you think I'm glad
you guys are you know like positive
thinkers I think this is totally by
design and nobody wants to admit it I
don't I don't believe that for a second
you don't have to believe it who you
bring with me who do you agree with is
this
deep dark evil monitoring tracking
trying to find out who went to the
ice-cream shop today in America or is
that's Jeff's opinion or is it just
somebody who probably hired some student
to do the coding for them because they
have a great product idea and that
student didn't have any clue about
cybersecurity and didn't know that they
need to encrypt that data and encrypt
that traffic and for goodness sake use a
hashed password and it's not one two
three four five six who's right that's
like it's up to you to decide okay
to protect query privacy Mozilla will
begin a slow rollout of DNS over HTTP by
default in its Firefox browser by the
end of the month moving all DNS queries
to cloud fair under development since
2017 DNS over HTTP known as the Oh H for
short transfers domain name queries
which try to match domain names with
server IP addresses over a secure
encrypted HTTPS connection to a DNS
server rather than via an unprotected
unencrypted a bog-standard dns
connection this extra layer of security
ideally prevents third parties such as
network service providers from easily
seeing the websites Internet users visit
and prevents miscreants from tampering
with domain name lookups though through
though do H provides much more privacy
than the status quo it's controversial
where a lack of privacy is assumed or
required such as a monitored
environments that insist on content
filtering among other reasons back in
July the UK Internet Service Providers
Association nominated Mozilla for its
internet villain of the Year award
because do H breaks DNS based content
filters put in place to deny access to
explicit obscene or otherwise
objectionable websites a few days later
the trade group reversed itself after a
fallout from users
it's been claimed the do H will make it
easier for people to avoid network based
content filtering Mozilla maintains that
do H improves overall internet security
although Firefox is do H service will be
provided through cloud cloud for cloud
flares 1.1.11 dns service at first the
list of supported service providers may
grow over time so this is a tough one
when Google forced every web designer
and web host to go HTTPS there's the
understanding that this is more secure
this is more safe my data being sent and
received from that server is now
encrypted right but when Google did that
they also made it so that other search
engines who track traffic in order to
provide accurate results instead of
PageRank are no longer viable their
entire infrastructure now does not work
because Google has made the internet
HTTPS so I don't see the fallout of a
decision that they put under the guise
that this is a security thing now
Firefox forcing DNS to be HTTP based it
sounds like from a security perspective
this is a great idea now my internet
service provider doesn't know that I am
going to category 5 dot TV when I go
there because the DNS lookup is
happening at an encrypted level and all
that happens the transaction is IP based
yes so do you think this could be
related to a fallout from things like
illegal downloads like it could this be
used what's the big picture is it does
longtail have an ulterior motive like
Google with HTTPS but well that's what
I'm asking like I mean I think of the
case about I don't know was it six seven
years ago where a bunch of people
downloaded The Hurt Locker and suddenly
they got legal letters saying your IP
was tracked downloading this right so is
it possible that by doing this you can
you can plausibly deny it I never went
there well we can say that the DNS
encryption is protecting us as users
sure it is it absolutely is
but I am a daddy and I have a pie hole
yes okay okay I have a pie hole on my
network that blocks advertising of all
types whether it's pornographic or
otherwise yep and my pie hole is
subscribed so this is a DNS filtration
device my pie hole also is subscribed to
pornography lists yeah and adult content
and gambling sites and all those kinds
of things so that my kids not anything
more than to protect them right now what
accidentally stumble on something that
they exactly
wouldn't want yeah yeah and tragically
this happens downloading an mp3 file
googling to download a particular song
yeah it's a pornographic ad pops up yes
from Google like it shouldn't happen but
it does so as a dad I want to protect my
kids so I have that in place now what
Mattila is saying to me is we're going
to roll out an update that is going to
change your computers including my son's
laptop and my daughter's laptop and my
eight-year-olds laptop they all have
laptops herself frigging spoiled
they're gonna change the settings on
their laptops so that it bypasses
daddy's protection and instead lets them
see all those things blows my mind and
presenting to them that's if you use
Firefox that's if you use Firefox yeah
yeah so you know where I'm going
yep Firefox iceweasel good bye yeah it
is interesting though because I fear and
I'm this is just complete layman's
perspective okay I do know that in the
past for various places that I've worked
they have had internet blockers sure
CDNs blockers it should be yes why not
use the Internet at all however Oh can
Firefox in the past work for us and so
there was some stuff we were like oh
we're just gonna bypass that because we
got fire cuz Firefox is using an
external DNS server right yeah so in
chrome does two chrome by default may or
may not use an external DNS right but in
this case chrome wouldn't work so has
this always been kind of a thing with
Firefox where they've kind of pushed
that edge a little bit more because I
mean I'm going back 10 years what I want
to go back to Jeff is the days when my
operating system determines my DNS
servers fair enough
yes okay think about that for a second
my browser my BitTorrent software the
programs that I use to aggregate my RSS
feeds those programs have no right from
my perspective to administer my DNS
settings correct thank you who should
set the DNS settings but me great and
those programs should honor that it's
and should like forcibly honor that if
they try to override it guess what
Firefox is off of all of the computers
that I own period I think though we live
in a day and age where people are not
tech savvy that's a problem I know but
they love their time I say that with all
due respect yeah because you don't know
that this is happening to you exactly
and so I think we've I mean when
Facebook first came out with their whole
we're gonna reveal everything to the
world unless you say don't that changed
the internet game yeah and so we've now
seen tech companies go oh I don't have
to follow those social construct rules
that I did before
all right we're gonna change it up and
we're gonna do it this way and so Tech
is now deciding how our lives live as
opposed to us deciding how Tech is
supposed to operate and that's just a
change in society we've allowed it to
happen
and the more tech we use with the less
oversight the more they get away with
the stuff and people don't care they
want to know when I turn it on does it
work
that's a problem and in this case
Mattila is making the decision saying
it's more important to the users that
they know that their internet service
provider is not listening then the user
having control over the content that
they're children sees and that's an
assumption that I don't think the web
browser developers should have the right
to make I agree that's my opinion that's
how we end a season only comment below
if you agree with us as well no just
just comment I want to hear from you I
want to know what do you think a blind
man has helped develop a smart cane that
uses Google Maps and sensors to navigate
the world cities are difficult to
navigate at the best of times but for
people who are visually impaired they
can be like an obstacle course and a
maze wrapped into one a UK national
travel survey found that adults with
mobility difficulties took 39% fewer
trips than those with no disability in
2017
now a new smart cane is set to change
that by revolutionising the way blind
people can navigate the world in order
to guide its users around both
low-hanging objects and obstacles above
chest level
the we walk smart cane uses ultrasonic
sensors to warn of nearby impediment
through vibrations in the handle the
cane designed by engineers from young
guru academy or yga
in Turkey can also be paired with the we
walk smartphone app via bluetooth using
the touch
controls on the smart cane the user can
control the their smartphone without
taking it out of their pocket leaving
one hand free for other tasks the tech
doesn't stop there though native
integration with voice assistant and
Google Maps software enables the cane to
use its built-in speakers to inform the
user of nearby stores and
infrastructural details that they may
not be able to see we walk CEO and
co-founder who sat silent who is also
blind says that he helped to develop the
cane out of a desire to use modern
technology as a tool for the visually
impaired in a world where there's talk
of flying cars he can't get his head
around why blind people are still just
using a stick to get around he says
quote as a blind person when I'm at the
metro station I don't know which is my
exit I don't know which bus is
approaching or which stores are around
me that kind of information can be
provided with the we walk end quote
currently the startup cells that we walk
for about $500 of course as they gain
momentum the price may change but the
features will also continue to be
improved and enhanced I love it
this is cool yeah this is a pretty big
deal for me I mean you deal with a lot
of elderly patients yes how many of them
are visually impaired sasha is a
personal support worker a care worker
you have personal clients who are
visually impaired and or completely
legally blind I feel as though even
inside the house that we walk cane would
be of so much use right i we have a
place in town called 5 points yes yes ok
it's called 5 points for a reason it's 5
intersections that come together at one
point it's yeah and it's way cool to
drive through it let alone walk through
it well we my wife and I never really go
into that end of town but we did for a
social gathering for family just
recently and at five points now when
it's time to walk there's a beep beep
yes beep for the visually impaired that
tells them it's time to start walking
out into the five points yes two people
ran a red light in front of us
Oh two people yeah and I looked at my
wife and I said if you were blind like
hearing this beep beep beep beep telling
me it's safe how would I know exactly
two people right in front of us that's a
bigger social issue though because I see
bread lecture time but this uses
ultrasonic wave waves okay so it senses
movement and something coming at you and
can vibrate and say okay stop
Yeah right from from a smart cane I love
that you know I thought of while reading
the story is you know the glasses Google
glass the Google glass is like a blind
version of that right so if you put
Google as a as somebody who's legally
blind but with not not complete vision
loss but if you put Google glass on and
had the cane then like major signs and
stuff could show up in a really high
definition in your Google glass as well
hmm
right because everything yeah
everything's integrated I've seen people
with the modified readers where they
slide the paper under the yeah it
projects it really large well if that
was happening integrated with the cane
and the glasses I'm curious to know yeah
I don't know if if someone who's that
visually impaired could use Google glass
because it is still a small apparatus
right but would it not fill your whole
visual field if program so I don't know
that's a good question anyone with
experience with Google glass I'd love to
know hey this is a cool story this
brings up the world to people yeah it's
it's game-changing to even have the
confidence to go check your mail
yourself yeah right I get to somebody's
house sometimes and I I have to go and
check to to see if they're mail at the
front of the house it has been delivered
sure because they can't get out
themselves to do it yeah can you imagine
like just the independence of being able
to do something as simple as that sure
well I mean at the end of the day the
whole point of accessibility is to to
remove those barriers
prevents people from normal life and so
something like this is a huge
accessibility device and I love it it's
great and five hundred bucks is not that
bigoted no no now think about the cost
of a seeing-eye dog what exactly I mean
just to put just a little spin on it but
yeah I mean really I mean give give the
dog a break for just an afternoon and go
for a walk with your we walk and it'll
tell you where the stores are and you
know dog can't do that
hey there you go you mentioned that you
can have one hand free so you've got
your your dog yes and you've got your
cane you've got the the the brains of
the dog and that and everything that
comes with that and these smarts from
like the smart nation the informational
smarts of Google assistant who would
tell you your bus stop and whether or
not the buses yeah which bus is it this
is bus that's going to the mall or the
one that's going to your house right
that's cool that's very clever and I
love what he said which is why are we
still using a stick yeah like let's
smarten things up here folks
yep all right I gotta take a look at
coin gecko here's what the crypto market
looked like as of 1800 hours Eastern
Time on Wednesday September 11th 2019
Bitcoin is a loser this week losing five
hundred and twelve dollars in 71 cents
you ass still holding pretty strong
though at ten thousand one hundred and
three dollars and 22 cents us Facebook
libras still not try a trading
litecoin is at 68 71 US dollars
aetherium at 176 eighty-five Manero has
gained very little at 70 301 I mean
everything is pretty static right now
Scala aka torque aka stellite is down to
0.55 I think they're losing some market
confidence with all the changes and
everything and people are not sure where
to go
turtle coin is also down a little bit at
0.3 to ten thousands of a cent and sorry
Scala was 0.55 ten thousandths not a
cent
remember the cryptocurrency market is
always changing it's volatile and it is
ever gonna close so it's a 24/7 market
so when you go to bed at say 10 o'clock
at night the market is still changing so
you know you you can't possibly be on
top of the cryptocurrency markets as a
trading mechanism so whenever you invest
whenever you decide to put something
into the cryptocurrency market our
recommendation here category 5 is to
only invest what you're willing to lose
and we wish you well with that and we do
have a tip jar if you do well keep that
in the back of your mind yes
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Jeff Weston thanks for being here with
us again this week folks we've got to
take a really quick break and we will be
right back stick around
welcome back this category five
technology TV we are celebrating the end
of all things
not just the season what is the season
we will be back which is unrealistic
nice well done everybody
well done nice finished out the year
without AC yeah the pie Wow season 12
was a pretty great season I mean we've
had had a lot of changes around here and
progressively the studio is getting
better and better all the time I think
like while we don't often have guests in
the studio sometimes you hear us talking
to Dave dave is here with us tonight in
our studio audience we've got seating
for 10 and he is hogging the whole place
we've had folks like Bill Marshall and
his wife and and Beau was here from
America right along with his wife as
well and and having people here in the
studio for me is a really special time
especially Dave no offense I know you
came a long way from you know just up
the road but those who traveled from
California from New York in order to be
here in our studio in Barrie Ontario and
you know treated it as a vacation with a
Wednesday night stopover and we're a
part of the show and and both of those
gentlemen where we're actually willing
to be put in front of the camera as well
so I'm sure you all enjoyed that you do
want to come oh yeah you don't have to
be on-air you don't have to be
world-famous but when you do that you
become world-famous you will however
like for sure get to hang out with us
and we'll arrange that yeah that is that
is needs so that is a memory for me I
mean this season that really stands out
I also did a lot more soldering and I'm
learning to get better at it that's
that's something that I've been working
on and in season 13 I'm gonna be doing
more of that we're gonna be doing more
hands-on stuff there's a lot of stuff
that's gonna be you know we're evolving
as a show in season 13 I'm really
looking forward to just be Robbie fixing
all the things that I break there you
know I want to build things from scratch
oh nice oh sure we've done some repairs
and I am using the the network switch
that I had a look at and I actually
soldered and fixed and ordered the parts
from Amazon after diagnosing it myself
and yep it works great that's what I'm
using at home in my nem server room
that's also NEMS linux has a whole bunch
of micro computers and I've got a 16
port switch for 6 bucks
any favorite memories for you to this
year I really was blown away by the Y's
cam unboxing oh yes so much that I was
waiting and waiting and waiting for
Christmas to come around because I was
for Dave for Christmas and then I
decided you couldn't wait let's not do
that let's just do you know a birthday
anniversary combo gift mm-hmm because I
love them you've enjoyed some of the
products that we've showed on the show
like the e paper that was it and we do
tend to show some pretty cool stuff and
it's practical stuff I try to stay away
from just tech that's just yeah throw
away stuff like stuff that really is
like hey this is pretty neat wise cam
yeah a paper yeah this is a cheap like
like you can get them for 14 bucks yeah
it's pretty cool and it saves a lot of
trees I installed an OS on my light
Garvey and marsh man which is
incidentally when I heard of Google's
remote desktop feature which is
wonderful
yeah well done thank you guys
for me it's been the interviews yeah
like we've had some great interviews in
the past second I think of a couple
seasons ago that interview about lidar
that the Amazon rainforest and I was
like that was the coolest interview ever
that was amazing I'm so excited about
this stuff but when it came to this
season we've had some really freaking
cool interviews that I'm going okay
that's just like the best like interview
status ever in particular the one we
just had last week andrew was here and
yakking about their advancements in
Wi-Fi technology look at episode number
624 that was a lot of fun it was and I
went home and my wife was watching TV oh
yes and I interrupted her show to tell
her about yeah the changes of wife
because I was that jacked up about I was
so so excited and so the interviews we
have done have been great and and I like
that I like that the show you know you
know spanning 12 years has gone from
just the basement like oh hey we're
gonna you know this rinky-dink thing on
a webcam - thanks Jeff I like how you
really boasted about season one yeah but
the point is you've not you've now taken
the tion truthfully it's you you have
taken the show 12 seasons to the point
where we're now being sought out and
people are saying I want to get on your
show and they want and they want our
product their products to be reviewed
and just so you're just having fun
Jeff this is the Sasha show all right
yeah yeah I mean she allows me to remain
on the set but that's that's it I
actually season 13 were renaming
category five technology TV - the sash
you know what's interesting about
interviews is quite often I don't know
how things are gonna go yeah and quite
and sometimes I even wonder like is this
gonna go over well yep
when we have somebody on to talk about
their Wi-Fi technology there's a couple
things that I look at one I don't like
things to be pitchy I don't like things
to be salesy yeah right so that's and
that's something that's it's hard to
impart to a business person that is
trying to promote their business at the
same time but our approach has always
been and and continues to be and I'm
learning to to learn how to direct
interviews in this way our approach is
let's talk about the tech let's talk
about how it works let's talk about the
personal aspects of how it came about I
love the personal touch too but without
being salesy and that can be tough it
can be yeah yeah I think it's been you
nailed it
oh thanks man what do you think I have
the interview has been a lot of fun for
you and that's something that we can
focus on more and then in the coming
months as well with season 13 so what's
your favorite memory we want to know
yeah I'd love to have you comment below
that's a great point what what memories
do you have from season 12 that really
stand out for you and if you're not
quite sure head on over to our website
you can go to category 5 dot TV and on
our website you can go shows category 5
technology TV full episodes season 12
and simply look at some of the content
that's there and scroll down and say hey
there's a good memory
there's something hey the Orval fan
experience I love it like these kinds of
things even look at these memories that
are there there's me soldering from the
from above right so check it out tell us
what your favorite memories are we'd
love to hear from you about that as well
now for the first time ever we are
taking a week off from category 5
technology TV so well let's be clear I
think this season we had to take it off
but because there is no power wells we
were here we sent out a file that's we
could but I may be looking a week
actually being yeah we actually you know
our cable TV networks that broadcast us
are gonna be rolling a rerun next week
so September 18th category 5 technology
TV will be closed and there is something
going on that is exclusive to our
patrons so if you are already a patron
which is basically
a donor to category five technology TV
who is helping support this effort and
what we do here at category five
technology TV we do have a three hour
special just for you if you're not
currently a patron you can become
involved in that got a week by going to
patreon.com/scishow that you can
participate in that show but as I say
for the first time ever there will not
be a publicly accessible show on
September 18th so if you tune in live
know that that will not be available to
you however in two weeks time from the
broadcast today season thirteen kicks
off in our regular studio with some
improvements around here that's part of
what we're doing with our patrons
special on the 18th as well so you have
the dancing monkey ordered for next week
right I think it's already here yeah
yeah it's names Robbie have a wonderful
week and we will well have a wonderful
two weeks if you're not a patron if you
are a patron I am so looking forward to
seeing you for the special next
Wednesday night take care everybody see
ya
[Applause]
you
