[Music]
in October 20 19 it was revealed that
the official Sesame Street online store
had been compromised using a malicious
piece of JavaScript code this
man-in-the-middle attack was able to
steal every credit card number entered
into the site's ordering system of
course the payment cards were verified
by the payment processor as the
legitimate transactions took place so
the hackers involved could easily vet
which cards were good and which should
be discarded their resulting list no
doubt in either whole or apart could
then be sold on the dark web and the
card holders most likely would be none
the wiser until the bills started coming
in but perhaps you don't shop on the
Sesame Street store right so you're safe
am i right well marcel Afra heem the
researcher at security firm checkpoint
discovered the malicious code and he
made a frightful observation the Sesame
Street store utilizes services from a
managed service provider or MSP for
short to run their web-based store now
in this case the MSP offering the
services is Volusion they're an
ecommerce solution provider and I looked
into them they boast over 30,000 active
merchants using their service 28 billion
dollars in sales and more than a hundred
and eighty five million orders remember
the compromised ordering system while
discovered on the Sesame Street store
was also in place for those thirty
thousand other
merchant sites that were utilizing
Volusion services upon learning of the
compromised Volusion was swift to act
and they had the issue resolved within a
day but the damage is done for those
whose credit card information has
already been stolen in an unrelated
attack the same month around 2,500 law
firms were impacted when their case
management software provider trial works
was hit by a ransomware attack this
locked lawyers out of their Case Files
for nearly a week just think about how
that would impact your business
and yet another story a Prairieville
Pediatrics practice came under lockdown
when their IT company was targeted by a
ransomware attack the malicious party
was able to infiltrate the clinic's
computers by way of the IT firm then in
September The Parent Portal for all of
Alabama's Mobile County Public Schools
were inaccessible when the school
board's external website provider was
compromised by a ransomware attack at
the end of July insurance providers
could not process claims for workers
comp auto health or disability when
kohrville a managed service provider for
insurance companies was hit by
ransomware back in June more than 20,000
real estate brokers and agents were
unable to gain access to any of their
listings when Metro lists the largest
real estate MLS provider in Northern
California came under attack now the
month before that first American
Financial Corp a title insurance
provider announced that 885 million
mortgage documents dating all the way
back to 2003 had been exposed by a data
breach which potentially exposed bank
accounts statements mortgage and tax
records social security numbers and even
wire transaction receipts I could go on
and on and those real-life examples are
just a few that I've picked from the
past few months and I wanted to tell you
about all these attacks for a simple
reason
there's no direct connection between any
of these attacks but one thing links
them all in each case thousands of
individual companies were impacted by
not themselves but their service
provider being compromised like Sesame
Street it wasn't simply the Sesame
Street website stealing credit card
information oh no it was 30,000
independent ecommerce websites all
linked together by their MSP who fell
victim to the attack all these companies
have that one thing in common they're
tapping into MSP services for core
components of their business
msps have become a very appealing target
for attackers
and perhaps we've become complacent
thinking that well because they're big
they won't fall victim but if there's
anything that these examples show it's
that these centralized services not only
do fall victim but in fact they can be a
lucrative target for an attacker which
makes them all the more appealing the
answer is not to stop using msps that's
not practical these days but we simply
need to wake up to the fact that the MSP
is in the crosshairs of attackers and if
all our data is in the MSP data center
well we're at risk by proxy our
customers are at risk our business is at
risk while many such attacks are
ransomware since that tends to turn a
very quick payday for the hacker data
theft is also prevalent so while having
and maintaining regular local backups is
a must to protect your company against
ransomware it does nothing toward data
theft so we must also be diligent in
ensuring that the companies that we do
business with are reputable and that
they themselves have systems in place
and procedures to prevent data loss as
well as data theft
unfortunately there's no magic formula
but you should be able to open a
conversation with any service provider
and just simply get answers about how
they protect your data and how they
ensure the safety of your customer
information
also make sure you employ local
protection including a bi-directional
firewall like the one included in ESET
endpoint protection advanced that can
help protect you and prevent the spread
of ransomware within your network also
be sure to have common entry points such
as remote desktop disabled on all your
systems if you feel like you need remote
desktop I'm here to tell you you don't
if you need remote access Remote Desktop
is not the answer you need to use
something with two-factor authentication
there are great services out there
contact me if you need some
recommendations I'd be happy to share
with you but if you don't have to factor
authentication on your remote desktop
just imagine any hacker can guess your
password eventually they've got
computers the
can whack away at passwords once they're
in there in it also goes without saying
but I'm gonna say it anyways I always
have to back up back up back up there's
a challenge that I pose to all my
customers it goes like this
if everything crashed tomorrow or in our
instance today if you're MSP went belly
up well ask yourself where are my files
where are your backups and here's the
final question that we don't often ask
ourselves but you need to ask yourself
this how long would it take you to
recover don't be ashamed if you don't
know you're not alone but take action
and realize that when disaster occurs
the companies that survive are the ones
who are prepared you already know that
having all of your data on a single hard
drive is just asking for trouble so now
it's time to equate that to the MSP or
the cloud and put systems into place
that protect your data they need to
ensure redundancy that can't be touched
by an active ransomware threat and do
everything in your power to preemptively
understand and reduce the time involved
in recovering should an attack take
place if you have questions my team and
I are at the ready to help visit
endpoint security dot CA for more
information about our products or hey
give me a call we'll figure out together
how we can help you to be prepared
thanks for watching
