we're bigger bigger
stronger faster I mean you know we're
greener why not I mean look Seth has
said this and we said it not having time
restrictions because in the story is as
long as as people wanted to be and that
was a big thing you know when you when
you when you cut a story perfectly you
know luckily and there's no difference
the Fox they've been amazing to us but
you know and they were able to even give
us for one year give us the forty eight
ten runtime right but you know the
standard Fox Network show is forty three
forty I'm saying this is I'm the editor
I know how we do it you know yeah nine
one has crammed and they kill themselves
up there they're literally upstairs from
us Jam a lot of story into forty three
forty you know imagine like you've been
killing yourself you're spending
millions of dollars to do this the show
and then you have to cut seventeen
seconds out just to make this arbitrary
time marker and that seventeen seconds
could be that one look from that one
character that totally changes the tone
of a show yeah now we gotta cut it out
so they so they can do a commercial it's
it's a it's a it's an old way of doing
things and and and it puts storytelling
at a disadvantage I'm not saying it has
to go you know just roll at infinitum
and then it's just like you're watching
like a bunch of dailies that go on
forever but having the freedom to tell
the story you want to tell the time you
wanna tell it it's really big preyus
it sounds like that's it sorry it sounds
like a huge benefit to fans of the show
and to the team creating it as well
alright you know again the game of that
game of thrones HBO model yeah like none
of those stories would have been told in
45 minutes
like yeah you would have to tune in you
know for weeks months and just try to
figure out try to tell those stories so
you know we we want to be that cool we
want to be that big we want to you know
spend that much money you know you guys
want it to be this great you know sci-fi
show and so do we
so what's the best option to do that you
know go where the champions are at I'm
streaming with you know less
restrictions a little extra cash an
example because you know I've been we've
been pretty good and thank you too sir
me and us to put out deleted scenes and
things me how many have a specific
example of an episode that that got
banged into it yeah I would love to okay
so sanctuary the Jonathan Frakes episode
that was a massive episode okay there
was but there was some dialogue in you
know in the in the would f Murray
Abraham in the big my brains don't work
this big chamber you know that the
planets are a union chamber that gave
some nuances to the script that had to
get cut because even though they were
because you could live without them you
know but it's the little bits the little
details and a couple of jokes here and
there that kind of like flesh it out
give it like textured layers there was a
fight that we were gonna originally put
online but it needs some of the effects
work where you know Bordas you know he's
enraged one of the mountain soldiers
wraps grabs one of the kids in the in
the colony right do you do remember that
at all yeah yeah okay and and it's not
you know now the way it plays is that he
chased him through the forest and knocks
him out with the butt of his gun right
right that's when we said the whole
there's a hole sitting on my Abbott
right here there's a whole two-minute
knock-down drag-out fight between him
and that guy that's awesome really we
would just love to have but so how are
the VFX coming on that well somebody got
paid for that so it's like some things
just are some things are just left in
the machine yeah but we won't have to
make those choices this year and maybe
some day if we have time or Brooks
somehow and cajole someone into getting
it done we'll get it out there but it's
you know it's those it's those painful
choices that that we don't necessarily
make anymore yeah right that is the plan
to release all the episodes at once for
the next season or are you phasing them
out and how does that we're gonna do
we're gonna do weekly we're gonna no
we're not gonna we're not gonna we're
not gonna destroy everyone's life by
suddenly dropping it it was
[Laughter]
