I'm here I'm here I'm here
oh okay I was just wondering if we
should start with that you're over yeah
thanks man
welcome to the coffee break everyone
it's the 12th of May 2020 nice to see
you this is something that we're doing
here category 5 TV just as a way of our
community coming together once per day
every day just because it's kind of a
crazy world right now so it's nice just
to sit down as a community and say hi
it's good to see you rubbing I mean
sometimes we wonder whether you're gonna
make it or not
it's a mad dad well cuz I work I'm like
we're considered essential service so
being an IT so I'm here at the office
and right up till like 12:00 o'clock
which is my lunch break I'm running
around and so run up the stairs grab a
quick bite if I can and join you guys
but I start I start the zoom meeting
five minutes before just to give you
guys a chance to connect in before me
hey Peter yes I got your email thank you
so much you guys are so helpful because
I was a desire to take two power
adapters and and I've talked about this
for my my the 1u rackmount unit that I'm
building with all the single board
computers I want to do the same thing
where I have a dual redundant power
supply so basically two power supplies
going in with the same voltage same
amperage and if one dies the other one
just continues running everything so
between Peter and bp9 I learned
yesterday that I need to put diodes and
Peter took the time to even do a diagram
for me which was simple enough that I
understood it so thank you and it showed
as the power is coming in to have that
diode there and it will prevent the
feedback of power coming back into the
former so that's going to be an easy
upgrade and Peter also provided me a
link to the Cote UK Amazon so that I
could see the product and so I then took
that over to amazon.ca because I'm in
Canada and I found a very similar
product and it's like seven dollars for
five of them did i order that so I know
Kiera did you get out that they know
because goods of job great did you it
was in that shortly if you had to buy
not see what did people would that fight
bad to be based on what you were telling
me Peter I don't care about the man but
I care about his diodes you know that
but he was a great dog yeah that's what
you're saying yeah so I'll just I'll
stick to the electronics yeah yeah we
don't we don't have to keep harping on
that pre de yeah the diodes look good
and it was seven bucks for five so so
that means so the reason I got a five
pack is because I'm gonna use two for
the dual redundancy on the single board
computers and two for the dual redundant
see it on my server in the colocation
facility and three more spare in case
you blow them up cuz I can that's why
you were saying for your server I was at
my car was having a ticket today for
your checking the brakes and while I was
waiting and there is some local
newspaper laying around and in one of
the articles there was this a photo the
photo is not interesting but the
subtitle of the photo was that this was
an aerial photograph of 1862 that maybes
much
18:52 yeah I don't even think how their
balloons were flying it I changed 62 I
guess I could have that I should have
given I'll do that the left or maybe
don't blow it
it's a hardware raid and it's a raid on
everything or nothing so so you can't
have dual rain yeah but you you either
but this particular Drive I do not want
it in the red configuration it's a
single yeah well why don't you set it as
a raid zero
yeah zero and you also have to configure
it in the BIOS yeah yeah well well in
usually in the controller but can you
set that single drive as the raid zero
just so that it yeah it's a four type of
driver the control attendant there but I
shouldn't even be recommending that
instead I'm gonna say is for the record
soul bubai a second drive set up a RAID
one well yeah what is the so-called
suicide raid what is it right no
redundancy no nothing let's say the zero
stands for zero drive fault tolerance
okay you lose everything comes out to
munch there's a motor taboos oh oh good
two months to come in though holy cow
those are huge dude is it is that a
perspective thing because he's holding
them up to the camera or the are those
that actually look like this
that's what big the big Dutch message
really they all baked yet holy cow dude
what kind of currents as I wrote it I'd
like how many how many gigawatts are you
pumping through that no no we're pretty
gigawatts do you go Bubbe blog good
things in a while since I've watched it
hundred the entry I'll record likewise
it was about about bullying trick that
6200 I'm so through it it would have
really melted above the back wall doing
sake why do you need such 50 connectors
there because I'm using a 24 bed bears
of life and I don't want to blow up
because original ones the one smaller
ones were out in violent before five and
realizes buzzes engine rage of the edges
milk milk milk the enjoys of this well
sure but what is it your support is it
your supplying from the power supply
what are you trying to drive that's 32
both it by then - what things look like
they can handle about 3000 volts
commercial electronic equipment yeah
okay okay
clearly it's clearly a super secret
squirrel and - no actually picturing a
with the wooden any any videos would
that remind you of
did you guys see that my description on
yesterday's coffee break I loved it it
just worked
I don't know if you guys spotted that I
didn't so long turn at the end of the at
the end of our coffee bro yes and I
hated having to cut you guys off but do
keep in mind so that's something I'm
going to start maybe packing things in
about 25 after so that I don't run into
that situation but saw you at the end of
yesterday started talking about the BBS
documentary and at the end of the
description I said and that reminded
soul who have a video of already
well I saw at the end of yesterday's
copy break I did see the screenshot of
the discord thing we're so blue said
this was so much fun what you kind of
short for and then he replied that was
all I saw oh yes indeed be the well if
you don't know on what we call it about
dragwon Lockwood Vogel Toyota apple the
Apple Wi-Fi Lane did you say that and
children saying all right subscribers on
it was supposed to be a trained up of
people is what I made x-ray our joy
don't you say Massoud is quite good it's
owned by Google I think we just
mentioned coming in the night with Tory
yeah I left the video on their other his
own there it's to that it's um a video
you posted on this card yeah that's what
judge good as well couldn't love even
movie yeah I don't know man
I didn't I didn't see anything but
unless I commented or anything when you
see this I'm gonna give you guys a hint
when when my gesture goes like this
that's my I can't understand the word
Peter saying well I'm like each other
thinking I'm trying it I'm trying to get
everything not it's not working that's
one of the nice things about discord as
you can you can type to us and it is it
makes it a little bit easier and your
email helped yesterday to go difficult
anyway I left a video and this gold
about alright then yeah yeah it's our
book which I've greatly but returning
about I bore yo I go goes update which
led to be I book which I you say even
more I'm Stein Yuma distinguishes
between my don't stand a too much well
look at the discord to see if I spot it
but
yeah I'll trade you an email about the
dogs in this road let me check the email
we don't need to just keep bringing it
up come on so to finish up the
[Music]
configuration claim stuff my forte but
to drive salute to turn to true but
something so you have how many drives
are in that servers I'll do right now
that's true to say 272 it gigabyte ok
yeah and I ended up putting the fort
fort photo and advertise in one in my
older file server and it so my plan is
to know what else you could do you could
you could get a das and connect that to
like if it has USB 3 or maybe put a
eSATA card in it and then access it or
though if you were going to put an eSATA
card and you could use that probably for
an internal SATA as well I'm just
thinking you don't have to rely on the
controller although I'd rather see you
add a second 4 terabyte so that you have
redundancy and my plan is to and after a
few months when the savings accounts
it's a building access to buy attitude
to two drives over to terabytes we said
ya know why don't you get two more Fort
Hare by tuning you do like a raid 5 yeah
but if they control the claims that my
for tribal ties is a 2 J but driving
oh you just have to format a TPP yeah
yeah so my plan is to I'm gonna use some
a year or so to and get a few drives and
their protein there and set up our raid
6 I think
yeah so what would be a would they take
control of the driver externally will be
at sour than the one enjoyed the one on
the boat at the adults file wouldn't it
well you could use like a PCI Express
card that would be doing it fast six gig
would it take a second yeah yeah oh yeah
six gig a second for you for an IAT a3
yeah yeah and according to a few pages
I've been checking turn off then it can
use all drive say independently but then
it can't from any of them so but at the
you're going in the wrong direction
don't remove redundant yeah but have
redundancy yeah but oh my goodness so
software Oh Serio j-bot you're gonna do
a j-bot setup and then use linux to do
the software raid instead yeah because
if something happened to you they
haven't read the books and I have to
yeah replace it then I have to I want to
take my my drives and then yeah here
yeah that what I what I would see is the
the reason I wouldn't go that approach
personally is because then you're losing
your controllers capabilities to notify
you if a drive was failing or failed so
if you have because your controller
right now the built-in RAID controller
if one of those drives is going wonky it
will let you know and so the silver LEDs
yeah
MDA this is immune Linux it couldn't
save your nails yeah if you can but only
through software rather than visual like
that might be depending on the smart or
something like that to tell ya going bad
right yeah
whereas with the controller on your on
your like it's part of the backplane
right so that's going to notify you
visually like with an amber light or a
flashing light so I don't like the I
don't like that in order to be there if
I have to insert a few new two motor
drives in in a few months and I don't
like then I have to shut down the system
in order to get it to the power your son
yeah I don't you're gonna do an LP em
yeah certainly gives you a flexibility
that way yeah cool man Eric have that is
in a big data center we have four drives
of tutor but each in raid 0 so what what
else are you using a server for you're
gonna be running software on it or is it
just a file server I also I want to
offload a few of my VMs really powerful
oh yeah so I can have a few that vmstat
is not reliant on my desktop it being
available yeah yeah that would be good
I'd be real good and then get yourself a
good UPS yeah that is the next step I
have a UPS for the desktop scissors in
my living room but I plan to get one for
the two systems those there's cool I was
thinking I might you guys know I'm
dreaming now about having because I did
the show on trying to reduce the noise
in the server room and my server is
still that our five ten still sounds
like a it sounds like your Cessna
sitting in my
studio mm-hmm what bb9 yeah yeah yeah I
was thinking that it said Sam of like a
jet starting up whenever you yeah many
of you cranked up that that server I
thought okay what the VEX be amiss
machine 47 land
oh they got it and they cranked up the
engine to break it to that that's the
down to my server firing and it's the
feeling again if you're sitting too
close make sure it makes you hear I got
it was that and from from I plug in the
power cord until I get the BIOS check
screen it takes almost a few minutes
from power I get there so so what I'm
thinking I've got an old I've got an old
file server that I used to use at home
before I before I upgraded my home
server I'm wondering if I could take
that in because it's just because it's
just a low powered system I'm thinking
along the lines of I really only need it
to be a file server maybe I could put
together something kind of cheap and
cheerful to I'm thinking the same things
when we were talking about going through
yesterday and you know web servers and
all that it would be pretty trivial to
put them to stick a Raspberry Pi on you
just on your network and just internal
writing no just internal yeah yeah yeah
but but what if remember I started a
feature on the dash unit with a no droid
xu4 yeah yeah yeah and the reason I to
the reason that I chose the xu4 queue as
opposed to a Raspberry Pi is because it
supports UAS so USB Attached scuzzy
which is a protocol that allows you to
get three gigabits a second off of the
USB 3 bus on an SATA controller Wow yeah
yeah but do you need that kind of speed
so
relax for a web service oh I'm thinking
more for in-house file storage
ah when because I do a 4k video
production yeah I need I need a fair bit
of speed but I wonder if I if I well
when I finish that series maybe I should
use in that unit because it's just it's
just got what five drives in it and I
can just repaired it off of silent xu4 I
do need to have virtual appliances
running up a studio but I'm just that
are 510 that's just a beast
mmm IV see what what amazes me is and
I've made this observation before with
single board computers is that the
arriving desktops now in terms of power
the problem is she still have that old
issue that old problem of dissipating
heat you can't run these things at like
4 gigahertz and expecting a lot to rain
or a bunch of however you can put some
fans on there that are silent fan yeah
yeah my are 510 as stupid as it is you
can't take out the fans on an are 510
and put in silence down there they're
like proprietary fans and for some
reasons to Dell says these things got to
sound like jet engines mm-hmm I had a
couple did they take this to another to
the curve like gene they work why there
are their normal face I figured it out
but we might wear that with something at
12 volts as it goes well that's what I
would say loud I know I know I know I
look at the calibrations there was no
will find two spaces one server the ones
at the dead like a cage and declaring I
drove a Jaguar
so I Gordon remembers I tell you that
when I to example something that's well
well totally that's why little huge love
will bloody noise Ron you know the
answer to that all was time million and
knowing it well wells billeted a runaway
occurring they runs abundant and no I
trusted you know I can't make a door
board and always they could it's funny
you know FAFSA and that's what it was it
went a lot faster than normal
oh yeah yeah you can yeah
it's why I love like a change so I
thought it was the fall stricter control
the sprays and offend not the answer
no yeah no they know a new one funded I
mean like well over 40 million and he
was the one you gotta share around out
there
well well turd German room 50 millions
and they send a lot less and I did the
local power boat without paralyzed radar
okay okay it's almost time to wrap it up
guys out there might as well wrap it up
nice well wrap it up no no no two more
minutes so boot because she's gonna
start shutting us down at 25 past there
yes now it's gonna be it now it's gonna
be a 25 minute coffee break
not a half hour coffee break you know
don't get me wrong it's like it's like
when we call the kids for supper we
called it 15 minutes before supper not
because we expect them to come up the
stairs 15 minutes before supper but
because we know it's going to take them
15 minutes to wrap up so y'all are like
my children
it's like okay guys come on gotta go
yeah I'm like okay I'm shutting her down
yeah so in other words the 25 after
let's not start talking about something
that's going to take 15 minutes that you
hear me Peter yeah I have to wait for
Lent man to come back into the into the
into the chat room or into the coffee
break so that I can show off the cake
bro again just a bit that yesterday it
didn't occur to you you should be able
to do a search if you go to our website
category 5 TV click on the search button
up at the top and just typing k-pro and
you'll find the video that of the time
that you you talked about it and showed
us
oh you need to tell Lance man that
because I was curious about the right
hears about the video so yeah pretty
much everything is indexed plus I have
an AI that that everything that we say
is transcribed so oh boy Peter I'm not
sure how accurate it is that's pretty
well on my voice you got a synthesizer
on your tablet yeah I played or a bad
idea longer this one I withdraw the
pitch my wife set back to coach the
other day she put 20,000 applications on
it so right answer oh it's a doll ain't
no love and I had to dodge the machine
you're no bloody good you dog bloody
work very good they came back to me and
said to me you should talk to me like
that
okay well they did I won portrayed you
could judge without God and he's out did
you know what he did I didn't understand
that they don't even understand what God
was by later job all right Peter glad
you got a thrill out of it
well guys so I'll wrap it up on that
note so you guys have a wonderful
afternoon I will see you again for
coffee break tomorrow which is Wednesday
so we'll be doing the show looks like
we've lost vp9 but nice to see you guys
so see you tomorrow bye you are early
