what I have here on my soldering station
there's a couple of things that you
absolutely need of course we're gonna
need some solder this is lead-free
solder electronic solder that I'm using
and I really recommend that you just
grab one of these from the dollar store
it's just too like a wire mesh for
cleaning but it's great for cleaning the
tip of your hot soldering iron if you
get some solder on there you're gonna be
able to clean that off really really
easily and then of course you're gonna
need a soldering iron as well which I've
got heating up right now and what
happens is we end up with a PCB now I'm
using just a blank PCB prototyping board
for the sake of the demonstration but
you're gonna end up with things like
circuit boards that you have to be able
to solder the headers on to and it can
be really really tricky I mean you can
try to use helping hands and put that on
there but you know what do what do you
do like it's all wobbly it's gonna fall
all over the place and it's really
really hard in that so then you try to
hold it and you're trying to hold solder
and you're trying to solder it like this
and you're burning yourself and it's
it's just a mess so my little tip for
you here and one of my little tricks is
to grab yourself a pack like this and
this box is just a box full of which
you're never going to be able to close
I'm gonna tell you what once you've
bought it and opened it you're never
gonna be able to close it again it just
comes with a whole bunch of prototyping
boards it comes with some headers and
these are great for like just to add to
your kit anyways but what you can do
with that is grab a little bit of glue
and glue a header onto your circuit
board and then solder the other edge the
back end and then create do the opposite
header so we've got two types of headers
here we've got a female and a male okay
so I've put them on there like this for
a reason so this now it just looks like
a useless PCB but it's in fact a really
great tool for me to solder headers so
now if we were to pretend that I've got
a circuit board here that has arrived in
the mail that I've ordered off of
wherever off of Amazon
or wherever I've ordered my PCB from and
it came with let's say this header here
this is pretty common so we've got this
this header that is going to allow me to
plug this into whatever else er maybe
it's got a Raspberry Pi header that's
going to allow me to put this on to a
Raspberry Pi so well how do I solder
that on so my little trick here with my
board that I've created which is a very
very helpful tool I'm going to take a
header like this and plug it in then I'm
gonna take a header like this and plug
it in and what that does is it gives me
a stable place to be able to do my
soldering so now I've got my circuit
board and remember what we're actually
soldering on here is this guy okay so in
this particular example and this is just
an example okay I'm gonna plug this into
my header and now I've got a nice solid
place to put my board the reason that
I've placed this here too is because and
the reason that I've got this solder
down here is because now I've got a
stable stand off to be able to put my
PCB on so that it's not gonna wobble
alright so it's a little bit of a hacky
little trick but now when I put my PCB
on let's let's do something crazy let's
put it on like this and we're gonna
pretend that that's the way that this
particular PCB is going to go so you see
what I've done is I've actually put the
headers on here so that I so that
they're sticking out and these headers
are also sticking out of the board maybe
they won't be and you can adjust that as
needed but it's basically just giving me
something to stand it on so that it's
gonna sit nice and solid so now with
that on there I don't have to monkey
with any glue or anything like that I
can just kind of put something up
against it and it gives a nice support
so now all I have to do is we're gonna
heat up the what I'm gonna do because
I'm right-handed I'm gonna be going from
left to right reason I want to do that
is if I start on the right I'm gonna be
moving left and I'm gonna be still
heating up these joints on the right I
want to move from my left to my right
because I'm right-handed if you're
left-handed you're gonna do the exact
opposite my soldering iron is good and
hot I've got it set to 400 degrees
Celsius right now
so I gotta start on my left hand side
and what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna touch
the kind of where the PCB meets the the
pin and I'm not using flux here today
but you may want to use flux if this is
a electronics PCB if if you think it's
needed it's not always needed in this
case we don't really need it because
we're gonna be very very quick and part
of this is being quick so I want to get
this in here and I want to touch it in
there to get heat to the joint and then
very quickly touch my solder and then
lift up okay so that creates a really
nice joint right there so now this is
connected to that header now I'm going
to move to the next one
heat it up put the solder in there right
at the corner where it's touching and
lift up and now I've got a really nice
joint right there next to it I'm gonna
do the same over here this is why we
don't need flux I'm not gonna be
touching here for any longer now my
solder got stuck there you see what
happened oh yeah
so no so did you see how I very quickly
got my soldering iron out of there
because I don't want to damage the board
I don't want to oxidize it or cause any
problems so now I've got this problem
where I've got this salt or stuck to it
so all I need to do is just really
quickly now that it's cooled I'm gonna
just touch there and bring that solder
out of there and now start again and get
it in there and boom
and what I'm doing is I'm lifting up to
be able to get a nice soldering joint
there all right so now I'm gonna grab
here again touching the corner where
they where the two surfaces meet and
bringing my solder in and lift final
joint heating it up just a little bit
for just a couple of seconds and lift
and now I'm gonna get in here and show
you the joints where are they where are
we and focus so you do have some really
good contacts so you see how these ones
I've not soldered these are just
standoffs just for support so now when I
lift this off now my headers are
perfectly attached so this is just a
great little tool to create and use and
then I'm gonna be able to solder these a
lot more easily mm-hmm ah real quick no
flux necessary in this particular case
if now I might have wanted some flux
because I got a little bit hot on the
one joint there but as long as you're
careful you should be okay if you do
need a little bit of flux so if if
you're finding that hey maybe that joint
was getting a little bit too hot I could
add a little bit of flux to that just
because my solder is a flux rosin core
rosin core it's gonna it's going to help
things there so there you go
Super's good nice and solid yes
