here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Chipotle Mexican Grill has been leaving
money on the table thanks to an apparent
bug in the restaurant chains ecommerce
operation payment card thieves have
hacked the click to gov bill paying
portals in 8 cities the German Ministry
of the Interior wants to take back
control of their digital sovereign sub
sovereignty cutting dependency on
Microsoft and looking for alternatives
and an anonymous bug hunter has publicly
disclosed the zero day flaw in the
popular vBulletin forum software that
can be exploited over the Internet to
hijack servers these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 dot TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with Linux bias I'm Sasha Rickman in
here the top stories were following this
week Chipotle Mexican Grill has been
leaving money on the table thanks to an
apparent bug in the restaurant chains
ecommerce operation last week Jason
Grigsby co-founder of app development
from cloud 4 published his analysis of
the eateries online order form the web
page code he claims contains an error
that he estimates is costing the company
millions in lost sales while attempting
to submit an order Grigsby encountered
two error messages one indicating that
the website had been unable to save his
credit card number despite having not
checked the box will allow this and the
other being a general submission error
the errors happened every time he tried
to use his browser's autofill capability
but not when the data was entered
manually upon further scrutiny he
noticed that his credit cards expiration
date kept being changed after the date
was filled in based on Chipotle's
publicly reported average order value of
16 to $17 and assuming that fixing
autofill would increase transactions by
half a percentage point grigsby
estimates that Chipotle could clear an
extra 4.4 million dollars in sales
annually by eliminating this bug while
he regularly sees problems
Otto fell on sites Grigsby says quote
Chipotle was just a useful example I
encountered and unlike most companies
they happen to have provided some
information in their financial reports
that made it possible to take a guess
albeit a wild guess at what the
financial impact might be and quote
interesting okay so I'm a programmer so
I understand how these kinds of
accidental issues can crop up because we
can't test every everything right so if
I create a form to autofill and it's
taking the date of the credit card
expiry and it doesn't have proper error
handling well that can cause problems
with autofill mm-hmm and weird things
from a programming standpoint I mean
whoever created that portion of the
Chipotle website more than likely dated
on a business computer so the likelihood
that they're gonna have an autofill of
their credit card information isn't very
high so yeah they may not even have
clued in to the fact that that's
something they should have tested yeah
well you've got a sandbox everything you
got a try everything and like I do
online e-commerce sales all the time and
like I try to guess at what a user may
encounter but I still get a call once in
a while saying I can't fill in the form
for some reason right
oh wait I have to look into it yeah when
I click Auto fell on some things it it's
wonky yeah sure yeah
some websites are the good thing about
this is this guy is now gonna get free
Chipotle for the rest of his life yes it
is interesting that from a business
standpoint just a small error like that
is potentially costing them billions of
dollars a years could be a year and it
makes you wonder could this be a
learning opportunity for other
e-commerce businesses to go we need to
take a look at our programming again
because maybe we're missing out on big
money like imagine if Amazon had a flaw
like this that popped up every once in a
while yeah how much money they would
lose right see though the difference
really would be in that if
if I wanted to buy something on Amazon I
would find a way to do it but if I was
hungry for a meal and Chipotle was
causing a little bit of friction you go
somewhere I would go somewhere else fast
and easy
right so maybe Amazon wouldn't lose out
on the sale because people would you
know why isn't this filling in I'm gonna
figure it out right and Amazon is pretty
much figured out the process because
everything's memorized anyways I just
click buy yeah there's tons of money
that Chipotle is probably losing out on
because people who are hungry probably
now we're gonna order from like as the
researcher mentioned though it's it's
just one example of a potential issue
and he's been able to exploit it and
demonstrate it yeah and kind of
reverse-engineer it enough to understand
what's causing the problem but as a
consumer myself like is it my
responsibility to maybe like hey pick up
the phone and call Chipotle and say like
hey I'm trying to place an order here
and you're probably not gonna reach the
web developer you're gonna reach the guy
or gal who's making the the burrito I'll
take the order of the phone I mean I had
it happen where I was ordering for Papa
John's and the stupid website couldn't
take my order because Becca doesn't eat
cheese and it's not an option and it's
like no I'm not even gonna get into it
but no they opted the particular option
that we needed was not compatible with
the ordering process so because I do eat
cheese and I eat meat as well so it's
like a half-and-half thing yes so let's
just let's leave it at that so I so I
placed an order as best as I could and
with the with the confines that they
offer and then I phoned them and I said
look that order that just came in here's
what's different about that half of that
pizza is no cheese right so it's just
like maybe that's our responsibility to
just kind of let them know and hopefully
they'll fix it and to be honest with you
I have had such success any time I've
picked up the phone to call any company
for any reason at all big companies are
tough right like we're I work for a
small company so if you've called me up
and said your web form is not processing
my
properly I'll say okay one let's try to
get to the bottom of that because I'd
love to fix it for you but also like
let's take the order over the phone I'm
gonna help you with that and get it
straightened out for you but if you have
time let's let's walk through it on your
computer as well because I'd love to fix
it but I'm the guy who's programming so
that's a good opportunity for me when
you call Chipotle here Papa John's or
whoever you're calling Amazon like
you're not talking to the person who's
gonna fix the bug good luck all right so
I mean with this story though like it's
a programmer who's notice this flaw
sorry the mic just dropped out sorry go
ahead
like it's a programmer who notice this
flaw what the average Joe public notice
a flaw like this yes well they just be
like a Disney it doesn't work yeah I
would say it doesn't work as opposed to
oh there's something wrong with the
programming they just go you might even
think it's something wrong with their
computer sure exactly so they may not
even turn it off and on again people and
call yeah who knows to go yeah now I am
hungry payment card thieves have been
have hacked they click to gov bill
paying portals in eight cities in 2017
and 2018 hackers compromised systems
running the click to gov self-service
bill payment portal in dozens of cities
across the United States a feat that
compromised 300,000 payment cards and
generated nearly 2 million dollars in
illicit revenue now click to gov systems
have been hit by a second wave of
attacks
that's dumping tens of thousands of
records onto the dark web
researchers with security firm Gemini
address our advisory said late last week
that the new round of attacks began in
August and have so far
hit systems in eight cities six of which
were compromised in the previous episode
many of the hacked portals were running
fully up to date systems which raises
questions about precisely how the
attackers were able to breach them click
- gov is used by utilities
municipalities and community develop
organizations to pay bills and parking
tickets as well as make other kinds of
transactions
while the breaches affect eight cities
located in five states payment cards
belong to people in all 50 states have
been compromised some of the card
holders didn't live in the cities that
were affected but transacted with the
breached portals possibly because of
past travels to those cities or because
holders owned property there the cities
with hacked portals are Bakersfield in
California Pocatello and Idaho Broken
Arrow in Oklahoma a ames in Indiana and
in Florida Deerfield Beach Palm Bay
Milton and Coral Springs have all been
impacted people who have made
transactions to click - gov systems
should check their payment card
statements regularly over the next few
weeks okay Wow we want to trust these
payment processors yeah we want to trust
them that's tough what's interesting
about this one though is the fact that
it was on completely up to date systems
how does like your programmer I'm dong
I'm I'm just you know Joe Blow who likes
Linux how does that happen when you've
got an up to date system sure that they
can still get that exploit does it
really mean that it's not fully up to
date not necessarily I mean there are
exploits that are maybe not revealed in
the wild right right ok for eternal blue
was publicly known it existed the NSA
used it that's true so those those
exploits existed they just weren't
publicly in public knowledge so that's
an exploit but this to me as the
programmer would point to malicious
staff possibly okay a device on the
network that's man-in-the-middle
something like that could be the case as
well you'd be so stuck if you got a
parking ticket in Florida and you're
back here the only way you could really
pay that ticket is on the click to gov
website and they really force your hand
I mean my kids are in in school in the
public school system and the only way
you can order pizza on pizza day now you
can't send an envelope with cash like
that
you gotta do it online and the portal is
how good Jeff I don't know my wife does
it it's trash is it yeah I mean sorry to
the programmers but it was probably
developed five seven years ago and is
still in the state that it was then and
hasn't been updated since because the
you know yeah it works no it's it's
garbage and shouldn't be trusted but so
I feel like okay this this could easily
be exploited I'm sure who knows right so
then what you have one credit card that
you keep at a very low balance for
things that you think are dodgy which is
it there's a neat idea we use a
refillable credit card from like a
Shoppers Drug Mart er yeah like that
super cheap e throwaway credit card yeah
for for almost everything online that's
that's a good good idea protects usually
the problem still exists but now I'm not
being impacted it means that sure yeah
but how do you know when and who is
gonna be compromised almost everybody is
so if I'm gonna order online I can go to
the the local store where they sell like
a fifty or a hundred dollar Visa card
that I prepay and then I can use that to
make my purchases and I don't have to
worry about identity theft or credit
card theft right because presumably I'm
just gonna spend it everything on that
card right exactly
if you have a $50 parking ticket from
Florida or you know yeah Bakersfield
then go buy a prepaid credit card and
pay your parking ticket with that that's
it
no not necessarily directly related to
the theme of this news story but I feel
like the last year we've seen a lot of
exploits that have impacted government
agencies and we talked we've talked a
lot about on the news that quite often
government just doesn't have the money
to have the latest and greatest stuff
with an expanding digital economy and
with an ever increasing number of
technology people are we gonna see a
rise in this kind of story where
exploits and bugs in the system that we
just didn't know we're there more people
are gonna find and it's gonna get used
maliciously or do you think at some
point society is going to say enough is
enough and there's gonna be enough good
people rising up to say I practiced I
found the problem it's not exploited
anymore here you go government a fixture
issue oh when that would be nice if all
the hackers were good first of all
technology ball that I want to be a word
now no just technology ball yeah that's
ours it's gonna be on a t-shirt in a
week I think what it really can come
down to Jeff is budgets and and it costs
probably more to security audit your
software than to develop the software
budgets and awareness because I know
that there is a in Barry that was that
was just hit and it's a company that has
a lot of money in their budget they just
obviously didn't have the foresight
right like never gonna happen to me yeah
it's tough and I know as a programmer
that there's often not the budget to
write and if and I put my foot down and
I do things right and so I lose
contracts sometimes because I do say
look it's gonna cost X number of dollars
yeah because I work into my development
that I need to make sure I've done
ecommerce solutions where they wanted to
be able to store credit card data and
stuff and it's like you know what if
you're gonna do that that just added ten
fifteen thousand dollars to the price
just to audit it and to make sure that
everything is irreversibly encrypted in
a way that it cannot be compromised and
if it is the data can't be retrieved
right those are very important things
but a lot of companies they have a set
budget and they say okay well we're
gonna get this done let's make it happen
here are the features we are paying for
these beach
we're not paying for you to dilly-dally
no seriously what why is that gonna take
30 hours right that's the question that
I get that that programmers get and the
problem is is that some programmers will
say you know what well if we if we just
do this we can do it for less see I feel
like that's just making society
vulnerable oh it is there's that's why
there's that's why there's the rise in
these compromising attacks Jeff and
glass who is the target I'm so thankful
that you have stayed so honest and
upfront about about protecting people
that you move with that you're not going
to let it slide it's it's really good
there needs to be more of you that's it
I hope that I always do the right thing
all right jumping over to our next story
Oh actually Robbie we have to take a
quick break first the crypto reports and
more of this week's top tech stories are
coming up don't go anywhere
[Music]
the German Ministry of the Interior
wants to take back control of their
digital sovereignty cutting dependency
on Microsoft and looking for
alternatives I'll call the Federal
Ministry of the Interior BMI from here
due to the German name of those letters
which I won't attempt to a pronounce the
headline comes from an official
statement where the Federal Ministry of
the Interior horse Co fir states that
quote in order to ensure our digital
sovereignty we want to reduce
dependencies on individual IT providers
we are also considering alternative
programs to replace certain software
this will be done in close coordination
with other EU countries end quote BMI
Commission's a strategic market analysis
from consultants PwC resulting in a
paper that was published last month the
paper examines the risks inherent in IT
dependency on commercial software
vendors with a particular focus on
Microsoft because of the heavy use of
its products and the way that they are
interconnected
especially Microsoft Office Windows
Windows Server and Office 365
Oracle and s AP also get a mention with
a recommendation for future examination
though PwC's analysts seem less
concerned about them because they occupy
individual product segments database and
ERP rather than being pervasive the
current trend toward integrated
cloud-based offerings such as office 365
Dynamics 365 and AI driven applications
on Azur give the customer enhanced value
but also increase increases lock-in
because the added value comes from using
them together the analyst identifies
several pain points the first is data
security telemetry transfers data to
Microsoft the user has limited insight
and control over this and it may contain
personal data and the report warns that
this raises concerns surrounding GDP are
in addition dependence on cloud services
raises the risk of outages or remote
deactivation of soft
to our licenses the report also adds
that subscription pricing means the
potential for uncontrollable costs it
suggests that Microsoft has the power to
hoist prices or change the licensing
rules
there is also an intriguing claim that
using cloud services might may reduce
in-house IT competence because the need
to support on-premises software is
reduced and therefore threatened the
federal administration's ability to
innovate beyond diversifying their
software by breaking it up amongst
several vendors or negotiating to have
control over a telemetry data the
recommendation is clear build and use
more open source software the report
references several examples including
Munich's largely failed attempt to
replace Windows and Office with Linux
and OpenOffice subsequently reversed and
the more successful efforts of the
French police force to use Linux
LibreOffice and other open source
applications the report suggests that it
is easy to identify advantages in
switching away from expensive
proprietary software but often hard to
accomplish they say to be realistic
ensure user acceptance do the necessary
training and proceed step by step it's
good advice yeah it is this is an
interesting story though and the reason
I find it interesting is because there's
a growing number of countries that are
ditching Microsoft and as I'm as I'm
listening to you give the story I'm
thinking Microsoft has to be worried
they should be worried because it's not
like a company goes oh we're switching
to Linux you're losing countries that's
a deal it's interesting though because
they are centralizing all of their
products into the cloud yeah and they
must realize that ok well we're dealing
with foreign countries and and if I was
a foreign country I wouldn't want all of
that control in an American company yeah
right and we're talking like and when
you're talking about these things being
tied in together it's like yeah you
actually
have to have this this and this in order
to have this feature no I just want that
feature I just want I just want to be
able to videoconference
well I need Microsoft teams now because
Skype is dead but in order to have
Microsoft teams I need to have office
365 and in order yeah so this is the
time and this is what it what worries me
those they're looking at the cloud yeah
as a country would that not be a
potential security risk by having your
country's data hosted potentially out of
country or a on a private business
server that you have no control of like
imagine if say you know we're in Ontario
the City of Toronto say they decided to
move entirely cloud-based and all of
their financial records everything went
to the cloud and suddenly the company
gets bought out by multinational that
goes screw you we've got all your data
take us to court for it like mm-hmm
wow I don't know if a country should be
going that like a cloud based do it an
internal cloud that you own yeah it's
really really tough I mean this is the
this is the dilemma that we're all up
against every business is up against us
where do I put my off-site backup yeah
and this is why I lean toward offering
as an IT specialist offering cloud-based
services that are hosted here in Canada
yeah because Canadian companies want
encrypted data in Canada because of our
privacy laws so yeah and and we don't
want them to be hosted in the States
here from here in Canada we don't want
them to be hosted in overseas and and
similarly I would expect Germany
probably doesn't want all of their stuff
as you're saying to be hosted on
American servers or possibly random
locations because you know Microsoft has
colocation facilities all over the world
yeah I like how other countries
talk about Linux so much it's layout
it's like the this is our Redeemer as
far as software must be Europe tions
doesn't because canonical is in the UK
but it's growing right like it's
commonplace people know it by by name
and people who aren't tech minded know
Linux you know you say it should say
what yeah but there's still that they
still say oh well that's scary yeah this
is what happened in Munich where maybe
and maybe this is a case I don't really
know but here's a scenario we talked
about software and why does why do
people still get compromised well what
if we took a country or a city and we
decided to let's switch everybody to
Linux but then let's not budget to
support those users it's really crucial
that we're providing high-level support
because if I switch you if I take away
your Microsoft Office and put you on
OpenOffice not even Libre Office but
Open Office it's right yeah you're gonna
have trouble yeah especially when you
send a no DT file to your friend who has
Microsoft Word they can't open a thing
yeah but with proper adequate support
and I'm pay somebody to do proper
support of these free software products
so take those savings and invest it in
training and support would that not make
the difference potentially yeah they
look for thee how do we switch our
software they don't we save money yeah
oh well cut Microsoft but see this is
the thing I as a secure as a
professional in the IT field have to put
my foot down and say you're not going to
have that web service unless we invest
in the security end of it you're not
going to be able to switch to
LibreOffice or Linux or Open Office
unless you invest in the support to
support your users because otherwise
it's just gonna backfire mm-hmm
so like let's put the money in the right
place it's got to happen that way it's
happening
just yeah you know stories like this
make me happy because it means that
people are looking in the right
direction yes see I'm thinking Munich
but no we're thinking Germany and this
is that is the direction that we're
going
yes so I hope if anyone from that
government is listening hey here's what
you need to do invest in the support of
that free software the software is free
it's gonna save you money so invest in
the support and this goes for your
company this goes for your like for
anyone who's thinking about switching to
open technology I really hope cat5 shows
up on a government report in Germany
that says yes the IP guy is French I
don't know in Canadian we have English
and French and I don't know German an
anonymous bug hunter has publicly
disclosed a zero-day flaw in the popular
vbulletin forum software that can be
exploited over the Internet to hijack
servers a simple HTTP POST request can
be abused by an attacker to remotely
execute commands on the targeted
vbulletin server without any
authentication that would allow hackers
to commandeer web servers powering the
forum software steal data tamper with
information launched assaults on other
systems and so on it can be done in
fewer than 20 lines of Python code this
is a very very bad thing the zero day
exploit code is verified to work against
supported versions of vbulletin from 5.5
dot zero to the latest five point five
point four build and there is no known
patch available and the creators of the
bulletin have yet to comment on when one
might be released meanwhile security
professionals are marveling at the
simplicity of the exploit and how ends
the extent to which vulnerable boards
can be owned by the attack the
Elton's customer base includes a number
of large companies sports teams and
entertainment groups that are now
exposed until such time as the developer
can figure out effects and that's
assuming their server admins are on top
of patching web sites running vBulletin
version 5 first released in 2012 are
advised to keep a close eye on their
servers and make sure nobody is
attempting to exploit the vulnerability
and use it as a springboard for further
attacks better yet maybe just pull the
plug completely until a fix is released
or some type of mitigation is available
mm-hmm buy mitigation I'm thinking like
maybe like if you're if you're wise to
the methodology that they're using to
exploit vBulletin you can create like an
HT access rule for example that would
monitor for a particular string and
redirect to a file in that file logs the
IP address of the user and then you use
maybe CSF to config secure firewall to
block that IP address in your firewall
for example right so mitigation could
take place if you know the string that
they're using and I do this with
WordPress all the time so I watch for
like injection attacks and things like
that and if they happen or somebody
hitting WP login dot PHP well you know
if it's not coming from my IP address
it's a malicious user because they're
trying to access the WordPress login
form and and so I just you know now I
can block their IP address based on that
right so but yeah scary stuff yeah
imagine if you've got this service
running on your web server and a hacker
an attacker like a script kitty this is
like anybody that knows about this
exploit can just run anything on your
server with a couple of lines of code
yeah as as easy as just to put a post
request no I mean Sachi you said that we
were talking sports teams as well have
this on the website yeah like do they
take their sites down you kind of have
to if you don't this again comes down to
like we build a website and we don't
have anyone actually actively supporting
it this is the fear is that while you
mentioned well if you're
team is up on up on all the patches then
you know watch for the patch but what if
you have a vbulletin website and a forum
and you don't have an active team
monitoring and maintaining that website
which is very often the case with these
kinds of sites sports teams included I
hope they I hope that they step up and
really figure it out yeah so what can
this kind of exploit do well well my
forum isn't really all that important so
I mean if they hack it whatever accept
it can't they just getting using that
yeah yeah how does ransomware spread
yeah so well through that yeah we just
need an EM we just need a way into your
network so if I have a server running
this and it's on my network then they
can use that to now encrypt all the
files on your other computers okay if
it's not on your network and it's just a
hosted service somewhere maybe you're
using like a co-located server or
something well you can the data can be
stolen all the data all the logins all
the credit card information of the
people that are signed up to your sports
teams and any anything that's on the
server can be taken or encrypted and
used as ransom and if they don't have
any like hashing out passwords and stuff
like that like which some of these old
software programs don't ya like em md5
yeah exactly I mean the fact that you
know some of the versions go back to
2012 yeah and how many people are still
running a site you know old company site
that they put up yeah you know five six
years and if it's active and they can't
they can't just replace it they've got a
thousand users exactly so now like
you're potentially giving up all their
unhatched password my like come on
yeah this is just yeah so if you're
using VL and v any line of people in
five please like just you know what
remove it from your server turn off that
website whatever you need to do for now
until there is a report from the people
and developers that hey there they're
doing something and that's patched or
fixed and you can actually patch it
we've got to quickly take a look at the
coin gecko crypto market report
now we didn't do one last week because
we had a way down week because of the
transition from season 12 to season 13
and so this is over the past two weeks
we've seen pretty much everything drop
right now there is one coin that is
holding steady oh and that is facebook
Libra yes still zero zero yeah but
here's what the market looks like at
1800 hours Eastern Time on Wednesday
September 25th 2019 Bitcoin dropped
almost 2000 US dollars in the past two
weeks eight thousand six hundred and
twenty three dollars and eighty seven
cents is where it's holding as of this
recording light coin is down to 50 799
u.s. aetherium is not dropping too much
only a couple of bucks but a hundred and
seventy two dollars and twenty three
cents u.s. Manero is down to sixty
dollars and 46 cents I don't know what
causes things to go up and down that's
what's interesting about the
cryptocurrency market you never really
know what's gonna happen so hey be
careful Scala previously known as torque
or stellite is cut in half so where it
was zero point six six ten thousandth of
a sentence now 0.33 just two weeks back
to the name renamed their coin I was
gonna say we did talk about that a
couple of weeks ago I wondered it
itching their names is probably ruining
some like some faith in the coin I mean
and I'm sure seeing it I think so
turtle coin is also losing though Jeff
it's down 2.2 for ten thousandth of a
cent that's a big drop it well not as
much I mean it was 0.39 two weeks ago
but it's still sighs I was like what 40%
that's well that's yeah point point one
five ten thousandths of a cent is the
drop so yeah everything's everything's
going down so really the point when you
see the trend like that over the past
two weeks it's just to remember that if
you're gonna invest if you're gonna
crypto mine if you're gonna be a part of
the cryptocurrency marketplace just make
sure that you only invest what you can
afford to lose because there is a very
high potential that you could lose but
there's still a potential that you could
gain as well so just make sure that you
know that it is volatile it's very
dangerous to him
so don't invest if you can't afford to
lose it and just remember that it's
always changing it never closes so 24/7
the market goes up and down and you have
no way to really tell ya exactly what's
going on yeah
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Jeff Weston
you
