covering the week's top text doors it's
like Linux bias called the ultimate arm
powered Nass Helio 64 is accepting
pre-orders discounted for the first 500
Helios 64 is a full-fledged linux
powered Nath solution that offers
built-in features that you will not find
in any other product at this price point
it supports up to 80 terabytes of data
storage in five hot swappable drive bays
plus support for a single MDOT two for
applications that demand extra
performance for connectivity it uses the
new multi gigabit speed standard on dual
land ports they offer up to 2.5 gigabits
per second throughput the Nass uses an
arm 64 hexa core SOC it features 4
gigabytes of RAM and a 16 gigabyte emmc
4 OS storage and booting now it's an ass
that's basically behaving like a Linux
computer so because the helio 64 is open
source once it's released we're going to
begin seeing distributions created
specifically for this hardware the
Helios 64 was slated for release as
early as next month but with factory
shutdowns due to the corona virus the
first shipments will be delayed an ETA
update will be provided by the company
once factory lines are allowed to reopen
in China but we estimate it to be late
spring or possibly early summer
pre-orders are discounted to just are
you ready for this $285 to the first 500
orders and you can place that order now
at COBOL dot
hi
[Music]
