welcome to category five technology TV
today I'm going to show you how to
install an operating system on a micro
SD card you're going to be able to boot
it from a pine Book Pro beyond that I'm
going to show you how to use github in
order to manage your repositories how to
pull down the data how to make changes
locally and then push them back to the
server stick around
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improve performance and reliability over
traditional hard drives with Kingston
SSDs category 5 TV streams live with
nimble streamer and Telestream Wirecast
tune in through roku Kodi Plex
or other HLS video players for local
show times visit our website category 5
dot TV now this broadcast is brought to
you by BP 9 Scott Barclay Ron Morissette
Jerry Kowalski Jonathon Garbi Jen's
Nissen bollock now ski and bill marshal
plus all of you who decided to support
our recent Kickstarter campaign or those
of you who have donated to ensure
category 5 made it into this new studio
space or our patrons at patreon.com
slash category 5 I mean I couldn't do
this show without your support I
couldn't have survived this move without
your support especially during a
pandemic and I just want to say a huge
thank you to everyone who has supported
category 5 technology TV Before we jump
into the show this week I want to remind
you please subscribe to us on youtube
click that bell to receive notifications
whenever we are live or when we post
exciting new content I mentioned a few
weeks back that we want to hit 25,000
subscribers and so far this month
another 350 of you have subscribed that
brings our total to 24,000 756
subscribers we can do it if you're not
already subscribed head on over to linux
tech show calm and do so and once we hit
that 25,000 mark I am honorbound to do a
fancy dance number for you
sorry about that several weeks back
Rocko from Linux spotlight interviewed
me and that interview was released this
morning it's been really neat for me to
see the number of viewers who well I
guess viewers of Rocco's Show Linux
spotlight who have expressed that that
they've been watching category five
technology TV since the very early days
Kevin y currents for example says that
he's been watching the show since then
Peter 14 even predates the show having
watched some of my very early YouTube
videos he said on Twitter I got into
Linux thanks to Robbie back in 2004 with
Lindos when his show was live from his
living room a great person at heart who
has helped so many around the world
thank you so much
Jill Bryant rennaker says and I should
mention she's actually one of the
co-hosts on Linux gamecast LW DW she
says I have been watching Robbie's great
Linux content for years and I'm so
looking forward to watching the Linux
spotlight Tony Hughes says on Twitter
really pleased about this Robbie was an
inspiration and fantastic help to me as
a noob Cheers as Nick says as Nix says
great interview I have followed Robbie's
cat5 TV for several years and it's
always good thank you so much and Joe
Panico says I really like what Robbie
has done with his tech platforms because
of these fabulous interviews we get a
glimpse into the lives of the people we
have come to know at some level the full
interview is about an hour and a half
long don't watch it now you can watch
this show first and then we'll tune into
the interview but I'll show you a clip
in just a moment so in the course of the
hour-and-a-half interview we get into a
ton of topics both personal and behind
the scenes here at category-five TV
everything from open source my early
days in Linux
my very first computer and the value of
buying no name margarine it'll all make
sense a little later
here's that short sample from the
interview for you
welcome to the Linux spotlight this show
is dedicated to showing off the best
thing about Linux our community
this community is made up of developers
distro maintainer x' youtubers and
everyday users each one plays a vital
role in our community and the goal is to
have a discussion with each individual
about their journey into linux and
beyond so join me now as we turn the
spotlight on
hello I'm your host Rocco and with me
today our special guest is Robbie
Ferguson hey Robbie how are you hey
doing great you I am doing excellent
dude these days when I say I'm doing
great is you got to get the air quotes
yeah doing great
hanging in you're doing the best you can
that's it yep well I think that's what
we're all doing right now so yes sir you
know you have shows like technology TV
and newsroom they cover all of
technology not just Linux people will
know you from that but if you were to
meet somebody that didn't know you what
would you say to them if they said who's
Robbie Ferguson personally Who am I I
guess you know I'm a family guy I'm a I
have a wife and three kids at home and
we have a great time together and I love
spending time with them we love like we
do our nature hikes as often as we can
we're just finally getting to that point
now where we can do that the weather is
nice enough here in Ontario Canada that
we've been doing that every weekend so I
like family time I like doing things
with with my kids and and helping well
having them involved in my hobbies so
that could be like having my son do make
or tech with me connecting gpio on a
Raspberry Pi to some circuit that I'm
about to blow up you know that kind of
stuff
so we try to do things together teaching
them right learning learning and
bringing them along for the ride so you
know because I'm always on a quest to
learn I'm never I'm never happy with
like I'm never at that point where I'm
done I know all there is to know I don't
need to learn more I'm caught if I get
to the point where okay I know enough
about one topic I'm moving on to
something else so I'd like to bring them
with me right well let's go down his
history lane and go back to the
beginning of your computers what was the
first computer that you used the what I
would attribute what I would say is the
first computer that I ever sat down and
coated on would have been the vic-20 and
I used that thing like crazy like I I
got to the point where I was writing
code at you know five six years old
which incidentally you know I always
thought oh that's crazy like coding at
six years old and then my sons have done
the same and you know my nine-year-old
now our youngest is is coding in roblox
and it's and it's so that throws me back
to those days and and I really like that
time where computers we understood how
they worked we understood the inner
workings of them so taking apart the
Commodore vic-20
was something that I was familiar with
but but the first real computer like PC
would have been an XT which as funny as
it is this big old IBM system that like
is a boat anchor as we say I wasn't
allowed to have a computer so it was
under blankets hidden in my closet like
that that's the kind of nerd I am that
as a child I hid an XT computer in my
closet so that my dad wouldn't find it
and get me in trouble I don't I can't
even imagine what I did with the monitor
I don't know how I figured out how to
hide a CRT monitor find it
I can't imagine he didn't but he never
mentioned it so I think he probably must
have known but my naive stupid kid mind
thinks that oh that dad doesn't know and
it's like this massive computer now how
long is it before you make the switch to
Linux well then those windows was a
complete switch yeah complete switch
right from there yeah I use an early
version of Adobe Photoshop in wine
because the old version ran fine under
under whines so and then as soon as like
cs2 came out it was no longer it wasn't
working quite what real quite right so
because back then was really bad
but they've since fixed that with 2.10
so like scaling is a lot better now but
yeah Lindos was about the time when I
switched I mean I said I'm not
name-dropping it was it was a classic
distro they got sued by Microsoft for
for the name they had to change it to
Linds fire which made no sense and then
they and in typical Michael Robertson
style he just fired everybody and sold
the company and all the creative rights
and everything and now it's owned by
somebody else but yeah but that got me
to love Debian Debian got me to love
Ubuntu who and who got me to love Mark
Shuttleworth and the whole the whole
ecosystem of
realizing that you can run a business
based on support rather than product I
think that that was kind of a revelation
for me too
so so it's it's like everybody like you
kind of move along with the waves and
find where you're at right now I run
Linux Mint 19 like it's that's I'm old
school so I like the mattei interface
well I was gonna ask you so why do you
leave tried all of them so why did you
stick with Linux Mint I've been with it
since nineteen was released and that's
mainly because it was it just is a
brilliant out-of-the-box experience I
didn't I kind of I fell out of love with
a boon to for a little while because of
unity unity made me fall out of love
with have boon to you weren't a fan
definitely not no and I very much am a
little old-school in my desktop paradigm
so I say I prefer matei I really do I
really do like that interface like
that's where uncomfortable so Linux Mint
with matei is a fantastic distro
out-of-the-box everything works and they
still support campus which brings me all
kinds of nerd joy well you know not to
sway you or anything not the temp you
there's no hot but have you tried a bun
to Ma Tei and compare that to like oh
yeah
yeah what Martin and and Pope you're
doing or is fantastic work and and I
have run that on some of my lower end
systems and I love it I've had it on
laptops and stuff nothing my choice to
use Linux Mint right now is not to say
that Lubuntu MITEI is not brilliant it
really is but this is just where I've
landed yeah when you know how things
work under the hood a lot of stuff is
very similar so it's really just finding
a stable distro that works out of the
box it doesn't waste a lot of your time
setting it up because I use
Linux Mint at at work I need something
that I can like reinstall in and be up
and running in an hour and you know back
in business kind of things so it's
worked not that I couldn't do that with
we're going to might a it's just where
you are it's just where I'm at
yeah and I think that makes it really
confusing too for for new Linux users
because well which which flavour should
I go with which distro why you boon to
matei versus Linux Mint with matei the
it's really they're all very very
similar so it's community it's the
ecosystem of the distro itself it's you
know where where's the support that you
know I don't need support so I'm not
really caring about that so much but a
novice user would so yep you can watch
the full interview on Linux spotlight at
cat5 dot TV slash spotlight we've got to
take a quick break when we return I'm
gonna tackle some of your viewer
questions and the comments that have
arrived this week about the pine book
pro stick around
welcome back looking at the pine book
pro feature from last week a lot of you
have started receiving your pine book
pro shipments and so these little quirks
are coming up and we're starting to see
some comments coming in vp9 was posting
in our discord server today which is why
I have my phone with me I'm not being
antisocial I'm being social see how I
did that
bp9 was having trouble with the keyboard
the D key was kind of sticky and not
quite working and found that he was able
to very carefully pry up that key and
get some compressed air underneath and
blow out underneath of the the contact
and for some reason that fixed it for
him so I'm glad to hear that the D key
is now working vp9 also mentioning that
while I showed on my pine Book Pro that
a quick tap on the pine logo and f11
would enable and disable Wi-Fi and that
seemed to work fine for for our
demonstration last week he's mentioning
that on his notebook on his pine Book
Pro he had to actually hold in that key
sequence for three seconds so if you're
finding that it's not having an impact
perhaps that's the difference followed
the same tutorial from last week on how
to get the Wi-Fi working on your new
pine Book Pro but try holding it in for
three seconds if my demonstration of
really quickly tapping didn't do it for
you so that's good to know as well
the final thing the bp9 mentions is that
his keyboard came preset up with the UK
keyboard layout well that could be
frustrating because your keys are not
gonna be in the right spot so basically
ISO layout versus ANSI and so you'd have
trouble entering your password and
things like that interestingly enough
when I booted up and fired up Manjaro
for the first time it asked me whether I
wanted ISO or ANSI so I went through
that process of telling it what keyboard
layout I had
and it worked just fine for me but in
bp9 s case that wasn't the case and he
was very quickly able to go in and just
change the keyboard settings within the
menu system found his way there says it
wasn't a big deal it was a simple fix
that I didn't even need the wiki for
since I knew how to change the layout
already and bp9 also incidentally from
our community mentioning that the wiki
has proven itself to be a fantastic
resource and you'll find that at Pine 64
org and it really is it's a community
driven site and so as problems come up
folks are posting there on the wiki in
kind of like a documentation format to
be able to help other folks who are
encountering those same issues Ryan
Howard is on our YouTube channel and
says he's unable to get the OS for the
pine Book Pro burnt onto an SD card
he asks please how do you do this a
video would be great well here you are
this is video so I I will do this thing
all right so the first thing that we
need to determine is whether we want to
use an SD card or the built-in emmc and
there are a couple of things that would
be kind of a deciding factor SD cards
are a really really easy way to be able
to switch back and forth between
multiple distros you got to kind of pop
you push in if you have one in there and
then it pops out so that's my SD card
right there I think I just ejected my OS
while it's on oh don't do that
that's like pulling your hard drive but
the built-in emmc can be a little bit
more challenging to to set up but think
about this one of the things and I'll
touch on that I'll explain that but one
of the things I like about SD cards and
the ability to boot from an SD card yeah
sure enough I just crashed my system I'm
going to reboot the nice thing about
being able to boot from an SD card is
let's say you've got a household where
everybody shares the same devices so you
could give each family member for
example or maybe you're an education
facility and you want to give each dude
or each teacher their own SD card so you
set up the operating system on that SD
card and everyone who goes to use it
with the power off boots from their SD
card and all their applications
everything else is set up on a per user
basis and nobody affects any other user
because the SD card is in fact their
booting harddrive now I just proved that
doing what I just did while stupid did
not destroy my Pyne Book Pro operating
system on my SD card so that's a good
thing so that's kind of cool because
with your own SD card you can just boot
it up and have your own settings so I
like that
if you've settled on the distro that you
prefer it may be time to install it on
an emmc but it can be more involved as I
mentioned because it requires sometimes
opening the pine Book Pro and you've got
to use a special adapter to flash it but
the process itself is the same even in
that case so if you have the adapter
you're gonna burn to an emmc I use the
term burn using an adapter plugged into
the USB port or something like that and
it's going to be the same process you're
gonna use the same software you may have
to use a different image depending on
which distro you're looking at but
speaking of there are some distros such
as Manjaro that actually offer an
installer so if you burn it to an SD
card then you boot the pine book pro you
can then install it to the emmc so you
don't have to open up the pine Book Pro
you don't have to buy an adapter to be
able to flash any MMC card so that's
pretty brilliant you've got to look
through the the wiki or the website of
the individual distro that you're
looking at so we're gonna head on over
to pine 64 dot org and choose the distro
that that we're going to download so you
just go pine 64 dot org click on the
wiki and go to pine book pro software
now I'm going to go with Manjaro because
we know that it's tried-and-true it's
the one that's coming on it and I've
actually downloaded Debian on my SD card
so I'm
from an SD card normally so this is
Debian running off of the SD card we're
going to change that in a couple of
moments so next step is we need to get a
tool to do the burning we're gonna use a
tool called B'Elanna both villena both
that lana how do you say it I don't know
and I'll explain why bal enna etcher
it used to be called just etcher and as
a TV show host those were the days that
I miss Valena
be a l e n a and the reason it throws me
off is because I am an old-school
Trekkie and so I always want to say
B'Elanna thinking of B'Elanna Torres
so think about B'Elanna and then think
no it's the opposite of that bal ana dot
io / h ER now while i'm going to be
doing this on my Windows machine you can
also do this on Linux or Mac as well so
B'Elanna
that battle in that dilemma dot io /
etcher download it for your platform ok
first thing I want to do on my machine
is make sure that no removable media is
connected to the computer be sure ok
this is step one backup pull all of your
USB drives this means unplugging the USB
storage anything that is plugged into
the computer SD cards whatever if you've
got an SD card reader or something like
that reason I do that is because we want
to prevent accidentally wiping the wrong
storage if you've got a couple of USB
drives plugged in you may accidentally
select the wrong one and remember that
this is a destructive process so you're
gonna lose any data that's currently on
the drive so in can I call it etcher in
etcher select the image file that you
downloaded in our case it's Manjaro plug
your card into a card reader or again if
you're using emmc use the adapter and
you do need to buy that adapter
separately etcher should detect and
pre-fill in the select drive section the
moment that you plug in your drive click
flash
to begin and on windows it's gonna ask
me to click to allow the administrator
access Linux or Mac are instead going to
request my root password to proceed as I
mentioned this is a destructive process
it's going to wipe whatever's on that
card so make sure that you want to
proceed okay and then do so alright once
the image has been written to the card
etcher will verify that the write was
successful this may take a few minutes
so hang tight and once that's done if it
said you were successful you can remove
that card insert it into your Pine Book
Pro and again I'm using the SD card so
you simply plug that into the slot on
the side if you're using the emmc you're
going to need to install that internally
power on your pine Book Pro and it
should automatically boot from the SD
card if you're using the MMC make sure
that no SD card is plugged in before you
power on otherwise you're not going to
have access it's going to boot from try
to boot from SD so there we go
I'm trying to brighten the screen can't
quite do it you can't quite see but I am
looking at the Manjaro login prompt
fantastic there we have it we are now
booted and running our new distro in our
case from a micro SD and if you have
trouble try using a different SD card
first and foremost ok just in case the
card has any problems sometimes there's
compatibility issues I haven't
encountered it yet on a pine Book Pro
but it could happen so have a second
card handy that's the first thing you
want to rule out and also if you still
have trouble as I mentioned get into the
pine 64 community resources like their
forum check out their wiki join their
discord server or you can even hop on to
their their subreddit as well they've
got an official one for the full list of
all of the places that you can get help
visit their website at pine 64 dot org
now it's time to head over to the
newsroom here's Becca here's what's
coming up in the category 5 TV newsroom
Google has fixed some Android flaws that
allow code execution with high system
rates
publishers are suing and trying to shut
down the Internet Archive Elon Musk
makes getting humans to Mars his top
priority will tell you how he wants to
do it Google Maps has launched new
features to help travelers specifically
during the corona virus pandemic lenovo
plans to sell ubuntu on more thinkpads
and think stations this summer and the
US military could lose the space force
trademark to Netflix the Netflix series
of the same name stick around the full
details and this week's trip to corner
are coming up this is the category 5 dot
TV newsroom covering your week stop
texting with a slight Linux bias
from the newsroom I'm Becky Ferguson
Google has pushed out security patches
for dozens of vulnerabilities in its
Android mobile operating system two of
which could allow hackers to remotely
execute malicious code with extremely
high system rights in some cases the
malware could run with highly elevated
privileges a possibility that raises the
severity of the bugs that's because the
bugs located in the Android system
component could enable a specially
crafted transmission to execute
arbitrary code within the context of a
privileged process in all Google release
patches for at least 34 security flaws
although some of the vulnerabilities
were present only in devices available
from manufacturer Qualcomm to
vulnerabilities ranked as critical in
Google's June security bulletins are
among four system flaws located in the
Android system the other two are ranked
with a severity of high the critical
vulnerabilities reside in Android
versions 8 through the most recent
release of 11 an advisory from the
multi-state information sharing and
analysis Center said these
vulnerabilities could be exploited
through multiple methods such as email
web browsing and MMS when processing
media files depending on the privileges
associated with the application an
attacker could then install programs
view change or delete data or create new
accounts with full user rights
vulnerabilities with a severity rating
of high affected the Android media
framework the android framework and the
Android kernel other vulnerabilities
were contained in components shipped in
devices from Qualcomm the to Qualcomm
specific critical flaws residing close
source components the severity of other
Qualcomm flaws were rated as high anyone
with an Android powered device should
check in settings to see if fixes or
updates are available several of the
world's largest publishers have sued the
Internet Archive for its emergency
library of 1.3 million books claiming
the organization is in
in willful digital piracy on an
industrial scale
last week the hachette book group
HarperCollins Publishers John Wiley and
Sons and penguin Random House sued the
nonprofit better known for its Wayback
Machine archive of web pages for
copyright infringement infringement they
argued is intentional and systematic we
understand that publishers hope to shut
down the org the Internet Archive
invited the ire of publishers and
authors back in March when it decided to
lift restrictions on the digital copies
of library books it has acquired and
scanned anyone that registers with the
site can take out any of 1.3 million
books the complaint states although the
Internet Archive claims the real figure
is 1.4 million the Internet Archive is
registered as a library but has asserted
an untested theory called control
digital lending that argues libraries
are not infringing on copyright when
they make digital copies of books they
possess publishers and authors have been
unhappy about this approach but held
fire while the Internet Archive
restricted the number of e-books it
would make available at any given time
to the number of physical books it
possessed that restriction went out of
the window in March however when the
Internet Archive decided that due to the
coronavirus it would make all its ebooks
available without a waiting list the
author's guild said the organization has
no rights whatsoever to these books much
less to give them away indiscriminately
without consent of the publisher or
author and the Association of American
publisher is called the move the height
of hypocrisy and a cynical play to
undermine copyright the lawsuit filed in
New York calls the electronic copies of
the books of the Internet Archive that
the integral Internet Archive has made
Digital bootlegs it goes on the Internet
Archive not only acts entirely outside
any legal framework it does so
flagrantly and fraudulently and it
proceeds despite actual notice that its
actions constitute infringement in
response the internet archive's founder
Brewster Kahle has posted a brief blog
post in
she notes that the organization is
disappointed by the lawsuit and claims
to be supporting publishers authors and
readers
he says publishers suing libraries for
lending books in this case protected
digitized versions and while schools and
libraries are closed is not in anyone's
interest having completed its first
human launch SpaceX founder and CEO Elon
Musk says the company is now focusing on
developing its next generation
spacecraft starship a couple weeks back
nice NASA and SpaceX successfully
launched astronauts from US soil for the
first time in almost a decade according
to an internal email sent a staff musk
said that the development on starship is
now the primary focus for the company
alongside the safe return of the crew
dragon from the international space
station starship was unveiled last
September and is designed to carry a
crew and cargo to the moon Mars or
anywhere else in the solar system
according to the billionaire Musk's
intention is to make the spaceflight
vehicles as reusable as planes four
years ago the billionaire outlined his
vision of building a colony on Mars in
our lifetimes with the first rocket
propelling humans to the red planet by
2025 for many years the company used an
image of the Martian surface being
terraformed turned earth-like in his
promotional material however a NASA
spent a sponsored study published in
2018 dismissed these plans as impossible
with today's technology last year Musk
tweeted he believed it was possible to
make a self-sustaining City on Mars by
2050 if we start in five years according
to SpaceX is most recent detailed plans
published in 2016 there are two phases
for the first human transmissions as
part of a programming to colonize Mars
the first will take place in 2022 when
at least two starship rockets will land
on Mars these will be unmanned
spacecraft but containing drones and
robots which will confirm
there are sufficient resources of water
on the planet and check for any
Geographic risks the second phase will
start in 2024 when another pair of
starship spacecraft will land on Mars
with the first astronauts these
spacecraft will bring equipment and
supplies as well as a number of
production plants for ongoing life on
the planet as well as develop a base of
operations separately the successful
mission for NASA has given the company a
boost ahead of the US Space Agency's new
moon landing program which will return
humans to the moon by 2024 and lay the
groundwork for a manned mission to Mars
NASA's new Artemis program is named
after the mythological sister of Apollo
the first moon missions namesake and is
intended to fly the first woman to the
moon the Artemis program will be used as
a way to develop something called the
lunar gateway essentially a version of
the ISS but orbiting the moon allowing
it to be used as a stepping-stone for
missions destined for Mars nASA has
given SpaceX and Blue Origin the nod to
develop its new lunar landers which will
take the first woman and the next man to
the surface of the Moon thanks Becca
we've got to take a quick break when we
come back our crypto correspondent
Robert Koenig is here to share the
status of the cryptocurrency market and
Becca has more tech news stick around
welcome to the cryptic corner and you're
welcome to the weekly crypto news and as
usual let's take a look into how the
market performed over the last seven
days as you can see we've got several
projects that gained over 15% the winner
is wax with almost 60% loop ring with
50% and so on most of these projects are
really serious and good projects with
huge teams behind them which is great
news for the industry on the losing side
the only two projects about 15% one is
hex the other one is hedge trade which
is yeah just show us how the market is
performing at the moment it's on the up
next headline is Bitcoin core released
the version zero point two there's one
feature in it that it's worth mentioning
which is the ASM AP and that is a
software part of the software that
prevents attacks by nation-states and
this feature makes it possible to limit
the number of nodes that are connected
to any specific autonomous system so
previously a country huge country could
attack the Bitcoin blockchain this can
now be prevented so that's also good
news next one is a small project that
everybody can use
create your own token so with this
software now put a link down below you
can create your own token so you you
enter the token name the token symbol
the number of decimals you want to have
the maximum supply you click on create
token and voila you have your own token
created you can put that token even on
an exchange in credit liquidity so if
you've got a great idea this is a
perfect tool but you can use to put that
idea into practice or if you just want
to have a present a birthday present
there you have got another idea next one
is pwc one of the largest accounting
firms they created a
part crypto hedge fund report and I just
I will also put a link of that report in
the the description down below the
highlights here are from my point of
view that of those hedge funds that they
analyzed 97 percent hold Bitcoin
I wonder what what the other three are
doing but anyway 97 percent hold Bitcoin
followed by a theorem XRP litecoin
Bitcoin cash and yo s no other coins
mentioned in that report that are worth
any substantial amount those hedge funds
mainly operating in the US and the UK
the two big financial hubs in the world
and they're based in the Cayman Islands
US and British Raj and so low tax havens
the market is increased by 30 percent
although that's still very small it
increased from 2 billion to 3 billion
this year I said it's still a small
market next one is d Phi which is my
favorite subject because that one D Phi
in itself will start the next will run
in our market I'm pretty sure about that
if you look here that Lending Club which
is a big peer-to-peer lender here in the
US they originated 250 million dollar
loans in the first five years well maker
which is our peer-to-peer lender
originated 2.4 billion loans in the last
well 5 years if I look into D 5 market
cap which is like when market cap but
only for the td5 industry you can see
that we are running on 2.2 billion
dollars market cap at the moment maker
Dow of course is the number one but
everything is green as you can see here
so and that also reflects on what I see
out there in the market I went to see a
few
forms defy form or finance forms the
they had no idea on what is going on in
our market they don't understand this
year they don't know what the smart
contract is they don't understand defy
they always translate it back to what
they're accustomed to with a middle
person creating the market but don't
understand that this can be done much
much easier and by far more efficient
than what we've seen in the traditional
system so this one here the defy market
is one to take care on watch anyway
that's it for me from this week I hope
you're well and I wish you the best and
thank you very much for watching and see
you next week hopefully thank you thank
you Robert just a reminder to those of
you who are watching at home we are not
providing financial advice here on the
show we're just simply giving you the
facts about the cryptocurrency market
and leaving the decisions up to you just
be mindful cryptocurrency is an
ever-changing market it's always
volatile and we suggest that you only
invest what you can afford to lose now
back to Becca Thank You Ravi traveling
during the pandemic can be tough that's
why the latest version of Google Maps
for Android and iOS has several features
that might help travelers get around
safely now when you look up public
transit directions maps will show Cova
19 related alerts Google points out that
data will only be available where it can
get info from the local transit agencies
and only on trips that are likely to be
affected by kovat 19 restrictions these
alerts are rolling out in Argentina
Australia Belgium Brazil Colombia France
India Mexico Netherlands Spain Thailand
United Kingdom and the US and Google
says they're going to they're coming to
more countries soon Maps will also
display alerts when you navigate to
medical facilities or kovat 19 testing
centers warning you to verify
eligibility and facility guidelines to
avoid being turned away or causing
additional strain on the local health
care system alerts for medical
facilities are rolling this week
Indonesia Israel the Philippines South
Korea and the US alerts for testing
centers will only be available in the US
again Google says it will only show
these alerts when it can get
authoritative data from local state and
federal governments or from their
websites google says the app will also
tell you how crowded buses Subway's and
transit stations will be plus you'll be
able to see when a transit station has
historically been less busy so you can
plan ahead Google says these features
are powered by aggregated and anonymized
data from users who opt in to Google
location history they'll be rolling out
in the next several weeks
finally the app will show you driving
alerts notifying you about kovat 19
checkpoints and restrictions along your
route for example when crossing national
borders this feature will initially only
be available in Canada Mexico and the
u.s. lenovo has announced that they're
including Ubuntu as a pre-loaded OS
option or a number on a number of their
systems starting this summer Lenovo is
already well represented within the
Linux hardware community having
certified a swath of its devices for
various different distros over the years
and the company recently revealed plans
to sell laptops preloaded with fedora
and make more firmware updates available
through the vendor neutral Linux vendor
firmware service but now it's going even
further with the Linux love lenovo says
all of its think station and ThinkPad
p-series laptops will be available to
buy with a wound - LTS pre-loaded and
not just a few specific configurations
stashed away on a hard to find storage
page somewhere while the same devices
can be bought with Windows 10 or Red Hat
Enterprise Linux pre-installed it's
still a major win for Ubuntu and the
wider Linux community the company also
says it will upstream device drivers
directly to the Linux kernel to help
maintain stability and compatibility
throughout the life of the workstation
of course it's easy enough to buy a
think pad
windows and install ubuntu manually but
the official support means buyers can be
certain that all hardware works with
Ubuntu out of the box no drivers to hunt
down or config files to edit presumably
it also means some cost savings as well
since a Windows license need not be
included lenovo says ubuntu LTS benefits
from an extended five-year support cycle
providing increased user confidence and
system stability across the deployment
canonical the company behind a boon to
performs certification and regression
testing on these systems on an ongoing
basis to ensure that it remains as
stable as possible for end-users
the United States space force was only
announced two years ago and has yet to
engage in any military operations but
the latest branch of the US Armed Forces
already stands to lose his first battle
to Netflix's space force the streaming
service premiered its new comedy series
space force on May 29th the show's name
has no relation to the newest
organization of the u.s. military which
unveiled its official flag only two
weeks earlier because of the common
moniker though the United States space
forces first battle might be a trademark
war fought in courts rather than in
space attorneys for the u.s. military
have done little to secure the space
force name as a registered trademark
Netflix however has been far more
aggressive and has already locked down
the rights to the name in several
countries despite sharing a name both
entities have plenty of room to maneuver
without evoking much confusion the
streaming comedy is unlikely to make as
viewers think they're watching a series
about an actual branch of the US
military the u.s. space force meanwhile
has yet to get off the ground
both litoris both literally and
figuratively
while Netflix effort was the first to
come to fruition the u.s. space force
was first announced by President Donald
Trump in March 2018 the military branch
was officially established as a formal
organization last December Netflix
meanwhile greenlit a 10 episode series
in January
20:19 created by Greg Daniel Daniel and
Steve Carrell space for stars Carell
john malkovich ben schwartz diana
silvers and tani Newsome season one is
currently available on Netflix
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at patreon.com slash
category 5 from the category 5 TV
newsroom I'm Becca Ferguson
now if you've never joined us for a
category-5 community coffee break you'll
find out more about it at category-five
dot TV just scroll down on the homepage
and you'll see the community coffee
break there along with our schedule when
we're going to be doing the next one it
is a weekly event that we hold on zoom'
and it's an opportunity for our
community to come together and even
though we're all experiencing what we're
experiencing in our world today we've
taken the approach to say rather than
talking about those things the things
that are bringing us down right now
let's look at it and say look we're all
stuck in this situation what is what is
it that I'm doing that's got me excited
what is it that I'm experimenting with
technologically that is really
interesting to me and helping me to
occupy time whether I'm stuck at home
right now or whatever the case may be so
the topic came up about github because
we're talking about programming and
Peter is there almost every time for a
community coffee break and Peter was
asking well how do you use github well
not really they the something that we
can show or talk you know walk you
through on the coffee break but it came
up that hey well that would be a really
good topic to discuss on category five
technology TV and the reason that it
came up initially is because when
Microsoft bought github they kept it
going kind of status quo as it was and
you had to pay for certain features but
then suddenly very recently Microsoft
said and all those paid for features not
all of them but a lot of those paid for
features that you used to have to pay
for are now free so they're they're
taking the service and they're basically
giving away their premium service
absolutely free at github com so what's
github well github is kind of like a
cloud service provider for you
it's for developers it helps us to be
able to manage our projects so that you
can go back in time basically with code
and it really is helpful to be able to
see those commits and see how changes
have impacted your project it's also a
great storage mechanism for your code
because you're able to share it with
other people if you want
now of course Microsoft making it free
you can now have free private
repositories as well and you can set up
as many teams as you want if you want to
collaborate with other programmers but
essentially what it does for me is it
allows me to share my code online in
such a way that other people can use it
open source they can compile it or use
it or run it on their own computers and
then if they decide oh well I'd rather
it work this way or maybe here's a bug
and I can fix that they can do what's
called a pull request so basically they
clone my github repository my software
code they fix it on their computer and
then they do a pull request which pushes
it back while they push it back to their
fork and then it creates a pull request
for me so that I see that Hey Joe will
blow over their fix this bug with my
software I can click a button and it
will import that fix into my software so
there's a whole lot to it and it's
really it's very powerful it can be
confusing especially when you get into
squashing and merging them and those
kinds of things which we're not gonna
get into today but what I do want to
show you is how the very most basic
knowledge about how it works is going to
allow you to use github in an effective
manner think of it as that where you're
putting your code out there as open
source software and it doesn't have to
be you can have it private if you want
but in my case that's what I'm doing I
want people to collaborate with me
occasionally maybe they'll post issues
if they find a bug and then I'm still
the person who has to fix it but at
least my community is coming into my
software repository and saying this is a
problem and you need to fix it
all right so github.com is where you go
is sign up for your free account all you
have to do is click on the link and
click sign up now I already have an
account so I'm going to log in as myself
and sign in so you can see here that if
I go to my repositories so if I jump
home here and go to let it load here let
it load alright I'm just gonna go
straight to cat 5 TV is where I host all
of my my software so you go there
github.com slash cat 5 TV you can see
how this works so you can see that I've
got a ton of software repositories and
they're all different projects all
different things that I've done or that
I am continuing to do and there's pages
and pages and pages of it so once you
have your github account you can log in
to what you see here which is my
repositories list but when you first
sign up you're not going to have all of
these you need to create your first
repository so the way that I'm going to
do that now understand github is not
required forget ok and git is not the
same as github github is an online
service and think of it as cloud storage
forget ok it is not the same thing it is
a online storage for that open-source
package management tool or a project
management tool so here on github
they've made it really really easy to
simply say new repository so I've gone
to my repositories and I've clicked on
new and then I'm going to give it a name
I'm going to call this one my underscore
test and a an optional description this
is a test for the show whether you want
it to be public or private and then
initialize it with a readme it's always
best to do that it's it makes it so that
people can access it right away
including yourself you want to add a
license do you want to add a git ignore
I'm gonna leave both of those empty
you'll discover what that means in the
future and create your repository so now
I have one called my underscore test but
there's nothing there
I'm done with the browser so now what
I'm going to do is I'm going to bring up
my terminal and in my terminal I'm gonna
type get ok so you can see that I've
already installed it if you do not have
yet installed so I'm on Linux I'm on
Debian Linux here you can type apt
install git that's what you're going to
type
I'm not route sudo su log didn't is rock
ok apt install yet it's gonna tell me
that I already have the current oh
there's an no no I've already got it
there are other updates for me though
but get is already the newest version so
if you do not have it you need to
install it if you're on an hour PM based
system it will be young install yet and
you can also find it in your GUI
repository manager your package manager
or whatever you use like san synaptic
package manager for example so once you
have get installed make a folder
probably in your home folder and we'll
call this repositories just so that I
have a place where I always know that my
code is right so this is going to be a
local copy of my git repository so now
I'm gonna type git clone and we're gonna
copy this URL github.com slash cat 5 TV
slash my underscore test so I can copy
that just with ctrl C you're gonna get
used to just typing it it's your user
name slash your repository and now so if
I look at my file system so it's cloned
get clone and then the name of the or
the URL of the repository so now if I go
to my home folder and then into
repositories notice it's owned by root
because I see super user dude to sue so
now there's a folder called my test and
within my test there's a file called
readme MD so within this folder so I'm
going to go into my test and I want to
create a new file I'm going to call this
nano test dot Sh
and we'll create a quick SH file to run
a bash script and I'm gonna type echo hi
there
how's that oh I should really stick with
the the norm hello world how's that okay
so I've written that out and I've closed
it so now you see there's a file called
test SH now when I transfer a file up to
github the the permissions are going to
be included with that push so if I do
dot slash test SH you notice it says
permission denied I need to make an
executive executive all chmod plus x
test dot s H so now if I type test dot s
HS s hello world so I now have my very
first bit of script ready to go up to
github it's part of my repository on my
local computer but it's not yet in
github so if you look at github I'm
gonna refresh just to prove it you see
your file list here and they're still
just the readme okay so now back in my
terminal window I'm gonna again use that
git command I'm gonna go get add star
within the repositories folder that's
saying find any files that have any
changes and add them okay get commit -
a.m. and then in quotes
give your commits a name so I'm gonna
say my first script and these are just
short little descriptions and hit enter
and now it's saying hey you need to tell
us who you are
because you've never ever run git on
this computer before so you need to run
these two commands pretty
straightforward get config - - global
you only have to do this once don't
worry user dot email and if you have
trouble typing that just copy it okay
and then in quotes I'm going to put
Robby at category five TV and that's
just telling it my email address then
I'm going to go user dot name I don't
know if you can hear that but it's
actually a really bad storm outside of
our studio today so the lights are
flickering a few times and
but I think we're gonna get through it
anyways so all right delete that and
change my name to Robbie
Ferguson enter okay done so I only have
to do that once so now see you next time
I run that git commit - am it's just
adding it okay so I've added it and it
sees that one file has changed there are
two insertions and test out SH is new so
it's gonna create that so now the final
command that I need to enter is get push
origin and I'm going to specify the
master which is the branch master so
origin master and now it's going to ask
me for my username and password which I
entered when I created my account so
cat5 TV is my username and my password I
use LastPass and generate new passwords
all the time and they are massive and
crazy so I copy the password and then I
paste it and there it goes it's
uploading that data to my repository and
it's done so f5 to refresh and you
should see the test SH is now part of my
github repository and there it is and it
shows it that it's executive hello world
so now back here so let's just pretend
I've made changes elsewhere so on
another computer and I'm going to do
this through the browser just to show
you so on this system I'm gonna go echo
hello again okay and then I'm gonna save
those changes I'm not going to give it a
name or anything like that description
I'm just gonna confirm so now the script
looks like that so see how I change that
in the browser as well you can do this
from anywhere so now if I look at my
file locally on my computer in the
repository there we go it still just
says hello world okay so I'm gonna go
get pull again I'm doing this all within
the my underscore test folder so git
pull is going to then look for any
changes that have been made elsewhere
and pull them down to my computer so
it's always synchronizing those changes
so now if I open Nano and open that file
you can see that new
hello again is now part of that so I'm
going to show you echo hello times three
and I'm gonna save that and now I'm
gonna do the exact same thing but I'm
gonna show you how it's different now
that I've already entered my name and my
email address yet add star get commit -
am final update get push origin master
cap 5 TV is my username and my password
is a string of about 64 characters
randomly selected and I'm gonna paste
that in and there we go so that's all
there is - now pushing my changes
locally to the github server so that
shares it again with everyone else or
with my other systems when I do a get
pull so by doing that I can get clunk
pardon me git clone something and it
doesn't have to be mine it can be
someone else's github repository as long
as this public but then I can make
changes to it on my local machine and
then I can do a push now you have to own
the repository in order to do a push so
the way to make changes to someone
else's repository is to fork it so when
you go to the repository you click on
the button called fork and it basically
makes a copy of it in your own account
that you can make changes to and then
that's where you can do pull requests
but those are the basics to get you
started that's going to allow you to
create repositories upload your files
upload your code be able to manipulate
it from any system so you can test it on
a Raspberry Pi on your Windows machine
on your Linux desktop on whatever and
then push all those changes up to the
server so that they can be downloaded or
pulled to all of your systems so that's
all there is to it we are on twitter at
category-five TV I'm personally on
twitter at robbie Ferguson thank you so
much for joining me again this week and
I look forward to seeing you again
next time and go to our website category
5 TV for all the latest and I'll see you
soon bye
