welcome to category five technology TV
you're talking you should be standing
right here whoa they're right here but
this is my spot okay
it's episode 606 we got lots of good
stop yes we are going to be unboxing
today my first unboxing I'm excited
about this lot
it's a kin tax and Android TV box nice
yep and as well you're going to be
walking us through a GIMP the GNU image
manipulation system and dealing with
these the different screen
portions of the screen that you can have
the wind and oh there we go
it happens yeah all the time
accidentally closed the wrong thing what
do I do I'm gonna show you how to fix it
stick around our live recordings are
trusted only two solid-state drives by
Kingston technology revive your computer
with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
your local show times visit category 5
TV category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it stuck it's here
cat 5 da TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia IB it's
so great to have you here nice to see
you too yes yeah it's like the whole
clan is together again the snow is sad
yes no twice this week happy Canada
happy Canada this is this is Canada and
now we're rain and yeah it's been cold
it was like four years ago it was like
shovel worthy this week oh yes this is
not so bad this is slash into all of our
viewers in sunny California in Florida
on the west coast it's nice to have you
here you can't relate to anything that
we're talking about right now not at all
we'll send you our sunscreen we don't
need it I had quite an adventure leading
up to the show and as you know we've
been having some technical difficulties
with our broadcast sir
it's like when it rains it pours and I
feel like it's like oh my like what is
going on so I hooked up my laptop and
was getting everything set up and ready
to go my laptop will not boot so I
pulled the battery held in the power
button waited you know cuz sometimes
that can happen on a laptop try it again
still won't boot pulled out the hard
drive plugged in a new hard drive still
won't boot and it won't even post so I
think it's like and I don't know what
has happened what help didn't spill
coffee on it I didn't do that either
Jeff I am so careful with my bra not
touch the laptop I would never let her
near any of my electronics that's why
she brings her own laptop and this is
why when you see her moving forward I'm
like this yeah I didn't touch it I
promise you you know your weaknesses
it's like it's like it just kind of
feels like it's like sometimes this one
thing after another and and I guess
because we do category 5 and we do it on
a shoestring budget in a lot of ways and
we do it for free we offer it for free
and it's supported by our patrons and
contributors people who donate people
who use our shopping links on our
website category 5 TV slash partners
great way to support us but those funds
help us to be able to pay the rent every
month pay for the insurance the internet
do things like I'm putting money toward
these wireless headphone microphones yes
so that kind of stuff you know helps
it's gonna help with that kind of stuff
but then something like a laptop no
longer works and it's like that's my
production laptop so all that said if
you have means to contribute please do I
hate to ask for money and that's part of
why category 5 is is free I think that's
that's part of it but we're very very
fortunate this week interestingly enough
Sasha you and I last week built a
Raspberry Pi touchscreen from kks B
right okay this is actually a Raspberry
Pi so instead of my laptop this week
I've got a Raspberry Pi that we're going
to be doing the demo so like last minute
I'm pulling everything together and
we're doing it on a Raspberry Pi so this
was fantastically
like if it went in the opposite if it
hadn't died last week we would real
trouble like so at least I happen so I
don't have a mouse I have a touchscreen
and I have the wireless keyboard that we
use last week so that's kind of cool
it's not a replacement for the laptop
the laptop was powerful enough that I do
a lot of video editing and things like
that but at least it means we can do the
demo today and you can know that this is
actually a Raspberry Pi that I'm going
to be using during tonight's
demonstration so if all goes well it
kind of speaks for yeah how awesome
single-board computing has become does I
just give up bonus marks in the giggle
score it does nothing to the giggle
score but it definitely gives us a smile
in our hearts to know that a Raspberry
Pi is powering tonight's show how cool
is that Jeff you've got a cool device
that you're gonna be unboxing in just a
couple of moments time yeah it's it's
good I'm looking forward to it it's my
first time unboxing yes yeah look at how
we're getting everybody's involved now
it's uh not gonna lie I'm a little bit
nervous oh yeah because this is like a
throwback to when you were sick and you
run the show oh yes and and that was
like painfully scary why am I even I'm
gonna go sit down actually that was 5050
well yeah you did a lot of the talking
and a lot of the you know visual but you
know I had to run the computer and I was
afraid of blowing it up so you know
we'll see how the unboxing goes I can't
get the Box open we'll just blame it on
not having a laptop an unboxing okay
I'll tell you about the magic of
television no matter what it's gonna go
flawless cuz your head if it goes bad 14
times no matter what all of a sudden
there's like a cut point and it's
Robbie's hands opening the box so no
it's gonna be good we're gonna be
reviewing the Quinn Tech's Android box
nice I'm looking forward to seeing that
before we do get into it though Jeff I
want to remind everyone get on to our
YouTube and make sure you click on that
subscribe button and if you want to get
notifications it's important to click
that Bell
that's gonna tell you Jeff you saw it
before the show that's right we're live
we're live it tells you whenever we post
a really cool video that's right
this is how we're gonna make our
millions of dollars everybody press
subscribe he's got a plan everybody do
it
all it takes is 10 billion people fine
when you sign up for a thousand accounts
exactly their children get them account
you've got it all worked out right we've
got it all worked out all right Jeff
well we'll get you to head on over there
yeah and so what do you got we've got a
an Android TV box from Kintex and we've
looked at their devices before but this
one is an actual like TV box tell us
about it yeah so first off you can find
out more on the website at context
worldcom so as well you can check it out
a cat5 TV slash Android so this is the
box very nice box I love the design now
the one thing I will say about this box
is its it is solid and and it's for
sorting like I know he's doing it
pulling there it's so good it's you know
this is like a solid robust box from an
unboxing standpoint III like this I'm so
glad he got into the box unboxing czar
just not the same when you can't get
into the behind I don't know so this is
this is my kinda manual I know you guys
don't read them but I do and so it's
very easily fold out and readable so you
know Campbell very clean nice design on
what it comes in and I like the way it's
wrapped up so there we go very sleek and
small chat room is making a note that
you forgot to read the instructions Jeff
so how are you ever gonna know how to
because I'm not turning it on right now
box very nice it's got that like that
arched looked to it
Jeff what's the material because it has
like a brushed steel look to it it it
feels metallic in some way possibly but
I I think it's plastic truthfully Wow
I do think it is got a nice link to a
very lightweight like this is this is
very very lightweight it's quite nice
cool
so the the Quinn Tech's this is a q9s
pro android TV box and it's powered by
the new M logic s 95 X 2 system on chip
chip quad-core arm cortex a53 processor
and it's up to 1.8 gigahertz so a lot of
power in a little box so as you can see
it has land plug in it's got optical
audio yeah a little bit closer Cygnus
now you're moving real fast but as soon
as you said land I perked up because
usually you got to do Wi-Fi with these
things that's right yeah no this this a
slant on it which is much nicer nice but
it's so it will do its fast well because
it's dual band 802.1 gigabit a B G and n
Wi-Fi as well it also has bluetooth 4.1
okay lots of ways to connect to it
you've got the optical audio which is
quite nice you know especially if you're
you know watching a lot of you know good
movies you kind of want that optical
audio I know I love using my op 2
quality at home HD output 2.0 which is
kind of nice a nice little toggle button
for power and that's actually 4k Jeff
yeah not HD that's right yeah HDMI it is
4k
so it's HDMI 2.1 output it's up to 4k at
60 Hertz with a sec HTTP and HDR support
really ok 5 volts and so there nice
little box see what else comes in here
comes with your HDMI cable that's very
nice
and your power supply oh yeah it's got a
remote Oh swell nice very nice nice
tactile buttons you get you volume
control very easy to see it is not a
light-up remote to be very very clear so
we'll pull that out of the box let's see
what do we got for batteries oh that is
a solid so two triple A batteries to
power that room
very very nice we're not included in the
Box they presume no there's no that's
that's it at the end of the box alright
that is that is the device and so it's
got Android TV eight point one point
zero kernel version four point nine
point seven six as well the GPU is a
Mallee G 31 MPT which is quite nice and
it's got four gig ram ddr4 and you can
get two different flash sizes on this
one so you've got the 32 gig and the 64
gig e MMC flash with a micro SD slot
it's up to 32 gigs and also you can
expand it as well so that's yep so you
got that on the side oh when I see USB
so can i plug in like hard drives and
kingsley plug in hard drives as well
yep okay so some of the code sorry I
want to point out earphones
mmm really most do not have an earphone
port there you go can you see that cool
even even iPhones don't have so what I
like about that is if maybe you've got
this device say in your bedroom or
something you know you could play
wireless headphone jack but it's got the
Bluetooth got Bluetooth - yeah so you
know that way you can listen in the
quietness of your bed and not disturb
your partner cool so as far as the
codecs that are supported you've got the
vp9 which profile - up to 4k 60 frames a
second you've got the 10 bit h.265 up to
4k 60 frames a second the Avs - p2 up to
4k 60 frames
again it just goes on h.264/avc up to 4k
now 30 frames a second on that one
h.264 MVC up to 1080p 60 and mpeg-4 ASP
up to 1080p 60 as well as so much more
so lots of codecs that it will play
which is really really good you know one
of the things with this that from a
standpoint when it comes to like YouTube
and stuff yeah is there are some
limitations as far as you know it is 4k
but you're not gonna get your 4k feed
out of that because it is Maxo at the
1080p so maybe just the USB is gonna
give us 4k playback yeah is that the
idea so but that's that's the device
it's very very lightweight like this is
a solid design I mean and as an Android
TV user I'm excited about this this is
good
Jeff do you have an Android TV box at
home that you use and yes you do
okay so I want to actually let's get you
back around here we're gonna actually
take a really quick break and Jeff we're
gonna hook this up and we're gonna take
a look at this see what it looks like
out of the box Jeff being experienced
with Android TV this is a great
opportunity for us to see how this
device performs and I should mention
this is a very affordable device so you
mentioned there's two different models
available yes and both of them are under
50 bucks so with the build quality and
everything else let's fire it up and see
if it's really if it's worth it that's
yeah oh yeah that's definitely plastic
but it's got a like a brushed steel look
to it oh yeah cool well we're gonna be
right back stick around
[Music]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today
count 5 dot TV slash shirts welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV Jeff
we've got it all hooked up yes yeah I
don't even know that you can't even see
it on the set here but what we've done
I'm just gonna jump right in here
because we've just had to put it right
here because that's where kind of our
power is here so I have plugged in
Ethernet I've plugged in HDMI output and
the power and shall I just flip this on
Jeff if you want to hit the laptop yeah
ok and it's on and I'll just set it back
down and let's see what what happens ok
live it up I wanted I almost went here
can't acts so one of the things when it
comes to Android boxes that I have found
is you can have a very long boot time
okay my Android box at home I forget the
brand but it's an a 95 and it takes me
30 to 60 seconds to boot up alright
anyone timing that we're in I was about
12 seconds was it that's pretty fast
welcome to 2011 time travel yeah that's
so we're gonna have to figure that out
so it is an infrared based remote all
right I'm gonna switch back here so that
they can see so it's not a matter of
like yeah yeah yeah putting it that way
and working so he's not a fam it's well
yeah that's not a Roku so but we did
find some batteries that we threw it in
there so let's just say about this thing
performs yeah
back over there okay so look at the
data's back Oh automatically fixed okay
so from a responsiveness instant based
on the remote oddly enough mine at home
there's a very slight delay of probably
half a second Wow yeah but this is this
is pretty instant so does come of Google
Play oh nice no clue what that is I
don't even recognize that somewhat looks
like a play icon yeah it looks like a
music type thing but so you can see up
in the top corner there just above the
browser Wi-Fi icon you've got the
Ethernet icon and it's green telling you
that you are connected to the Ethernet
which is nice okay Bluetooth is off the
USB connection is off and battery and or
no that's SD card SD card EMC ok so
let's take a look at the settings
yeah I'm keen to see like what kind of
stuff we've got here oh we have the
network so your your basic Android menu
your screensaver all that come so no
date and time can we set the timezone as
I notice that it's all ik GMT date and
time use a network provided time yeah ok
so that's how it got the time ok perfect
yeah but it is that they've got the Oh
set time zone yeah see look at that it's
it's rake GMT that's right so let's set
it to Toronto time or New York Eastern
oh there you go perfect so time at the
top left 7:25 p.m. take it off the
24-hour format although it wasn't 24 on
the top mm-hmm it was showing 7:25 p.m.
oh that's cool yeah ok let's back out
you got like a back button on there yeah
there's a back button on the remote I
like look at times good sweet ok so
going back into the settings now
language keyboard accessibility yeah you
can add a Bluetooth accessory find my
watch
ok if you're interested to see yeah we
have a Bluetooth keyboard right here ok
can we like I want to know can you set
it to like pairing mode it's currently
in pairing mode let's see if I can get
up all right
cuts
searching for accessories before pairing
your Bluetooth device make sure they're
in pairing mode
now you sure it is it to my phone oh ok
turn that keyboard may not be able to
connect to multiple devices yep so I
just turned it off on my device now
connect and PC ok ok
flashing trying again it's lookin come
on buddy
come on pick it up you can do it is this
a browser so I'm very interested to see
if it does connect but I'm not your
keyboards not in pairing mode Jeff it
was a paranoid cycle okay it's flashing
okay now some pairing mode again sir
this is the fun of doing a live thing
and I've stopped again it's not picking
up
that's your keyboard though it's not
we've never paired it with anything no
that's right other than your phone so
okay
yeah it doesn't see anyone see wanted to
connect since you okay so what do you do
one do that to press one three hold in
PC okay four oh there now it's impairing
I had it not impairing because now you
got the fast flash Jack I didn't read
the instructions progress says bright on
it Jeff you know what fair enough I'll
take that one on the chin don't be daft
yeah it's not so can you push back and
then like go to search for accessories
again yep so at accessory give us try
again it is flashing oh alright keyboard
okay see Jeff it helps if you actually
put your keyboard in pairing mode okay
with keyboard okay so punch in two seven
five nine eight four Sasha I'm gonna let
Sasha do that okay two seven five nine
eight four then press Enter and then
press Enter it says okay well paired
paired its paired oh look at that so now
can you actually so I'm just so looking
at the keyboard with the navigation
there can you navigate up and down oh
yeah
down yeah me ship the remote on the
table Jeff okay you guys want to show us
yeah look at that
okay I am I brain my eyes don't work
there's a screen right here she's like
looking at the screen for kilometres
away there's one right here I would be
interested to know if we that's cool
connected a bluetooth mouse oh here we
go
if that would make like if you then get
a mouse on the screen I don't know so
but anyway so going back now one of the
things I'm interested about is security
and restrictions yeah so allow
installation of unknown sources and then
verify apps okay so that's all it is for
security cool so now because this is an
Android TV device I need to say this you
especially if you're gonna be using the
browser yeah you need to have protection
on your device it is answered so you
know get ESET throw or something and
throw it on your device
ESET has a free Android TV protection so
you can actually if you go into Google
Play you should be able to find that so
we don't need to do that but if you do
have to sign all you got to sign it
because we don't have like a we don't
have our Google account setup or
anything like that yet where are you now
games so I went to movements and the
name okay then to add but it gives me
more than just that so I mean okay so
this is like these are the apps that are
currently installed and you can add them
it's basically like a menu okay so DMC
that's what the media is okay okay so in
the bottom of this screen yeah how when
I con down there wondering what that
icon was that is Katie MC click it I
want to see it Cody requires access to
your device media of course we want it
to have access to our media because if I
plug in a USB flash drive that's full of
movies and stuff I want it to be able to
access those now that was version 18
point Oh Leia I don't know what versions
out right now so you'd probably Sasha do
you want to look for what version is KDM
see right now so you may have to do
update depending on but that girl like
that was nice and seamless yeah so we're
looking at everything out of the box
is there any way wow it looks really
maybe we should pull up YouTube or
something like that and see if it works
just so that we can actually click on
some media but navigation seems pretty
pretty sleek what are you pushing right
now I was in the back okay back out so I
actually have to turn coach yeah
it's typical that's kind of how it works
that's power options exist all right
cool okay so let's go to youtube yeah my
category quickly this loads yeah okay so
we want to ok I've I've seen some oh now
you're using the keyboard now oh there's
voice as well what's sweet there's there
wasn't a microphone on this is there I
don't think so is there I don't know you
pushed something he's pushing buttons
all over the place
it's okay so that's Google isn't
responding so we're gonna close that up
okay all right so we're gonna go back up
to search tap to speak okay that's
interesting
are you actually clicking on this search
by voice no but okay hold on okay what
was that was there again tap to speak oh
test I don't think there's a mic go to
YouTube one give us videos can we'd like
five does like us I want oh can you just
type well that's what I started before
but oh I think what you're doing is
you're pushing I'm just guessing I'm
taking the remote from him okay now we
have a cursor wart wart oh your control
see Jeff I can hack stuff okay
you have ups okay well you got you got
the right place anyway there you go okay
so less so can we can I go down now with
the cursor yep
sweet so we got a live stream we're
gonna totally live stream the see how
quick this is gonna be crazy
brilliant I you know I gotta say I wish
I knew that we were unboxing an Android
TV box that I have a remote at home yeah
it's got a full keyboard on it's got a
touchpad
it's bluetooth enable that I use for my
Android box so I'm not happy right now
karakurt okay is that because it's live
maybe well this has got USB and
everything else to Jeff so I could plug
in a keyboard or whatever else yeah
exactly
okay let's let's just click on like one
of our videos instead of the live stream
because I think that's gonna cause a
rift in the space-time continuum does
this work
did you play it plays our ads that's
good haha Wow
well look at it's got a skip ad down on
the side there just like YouTube let's
go go go get in there I think if I had a
mouse plugged in it'll be a little more
pleasant to work with but I agree but it
works in this plan look at that
no I'm I'm hearing sound well because my
speaker is plugged in Mike's screen is
plugged into HDMI oh it has HDMI audio
but that's cool but no that's uh that's
a very responsive device for 50 bucks
under yeah so check them out cat five
dot TV slash Android you can pick one of
those up
alright sash well we've got a head over
to the news room you've got some stories
for us sure do
excellent all right here are the stories
were covering this week at the category
5 TV newsroom a phone 214 point oh four
LTS has reached the end of life five
years after it was first released
Amazon's AI automatically tracks and
fires warehouse workers who it
determines to be unproductive Nintendo's
hybrid switch console now stay
thirty four point seven four million
units which surpasses the sales of the
incredibly popular and sixty four and
Elon Musk has revealed his neural link
startup is close to announcing the first
brain machine interface to connect
humans and computers these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere this
is the category five TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
we've got the slide Linux bias Jeff
Weston Jemma you're building a brand new
beautiful website what
aren't you your terrible actor what this
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost I'm Sachi Rickman and here at
the top stories for following this week
Ubuntu 14.04 LTS has reached its end of
life five years after it was first
released when a piece of software
reaches end-of-life most commonly called
AOL this marks the end of all support
and as of this past Tuesday there will
be no further security updates package
updates or maintenance updates to a boon
to 14.04 LTS for desktop or server users
since 2012
each long-term support release or LTS of
a boon to is backed by five years of
ongoing supports security patches and
critical fixes the benefit of getting
ongoing band the benefit of getting
ongoing band-aids of bug solutions and
core packages is one of the reasons if
wound to LTS releases are the preferred
choice for millions of users but even so
that support is finding all those
support for Ubuntu 14.04 ended April
30th the OS itself will continue to work
without any major issues third-party
repositories can even continue to
provide packages for the release the
though very few well canonical advises
that users Alva boon 2.14 point o for
LTS upgrade to an activity it's actively
supported version of Ubuntu as soon as
possible
well what we don't have five years
support on our life the upgrade path is
really quite simple so follow the
directions that they provide and you can
actually get to the next version of
Ubuntu LTS quite simply just yeah
because it's based on Debian so like
we're used to apt apt-get and you can do
all that through in a boon to as well is
there any reason why somebody would
stick to fourteen point Oh for like I
can't the server OS right so well I mean
it can be it's they offer both a server
and desktop distros on a server though
sometimes like you've got old software
that depends on old dependencies and
maybe you know your company paid twenty
thousand dollars to have that software
developed and do you want to redevelop
it if like say it uses open SSL one or
something like that
mmm-hmm yes you do spend all the money
you need to spend and make it happen but
that that might hold you back I mean and
and you know I hate to say it but
government you see it a lot where you
know they they've invested so much money
in software and this is why we sometimes
hear about data breaches that have to do
with software and various facilities not
just government but companies as well
because they spend a lot of money to
build the software and technology moves
very very fast yeah we have to budget as
we're building that software for ongoing
regular maintenance it's like a regular
thing so it's not just like buy it and
forget it no you've got to pay whoever
is developing it to continually keep
that up to date but if you don't then
you've got software that depends on this
old operating system and if you upgrade
the operating system you'll break that
software right that's a big problem
ah it's catch-22 it's like they all have
to do this all at once like it needs to
be a lot of communication and
coordination and everybody just just
never gonna ever stop at all system you
just can't ever stop evolving right if
you if you run websites like people
deploy WordPress websites and then
don't have it actively maintained by
somebody who understands how to deal
with that mm-hmm and then you get
compromised and you wonder why right
maybe you know why but you know it's you
got to spend the money to keep it safe
though that people you know they look at
their cars
I don't like oh I need to get my right
well changes I need to it's true tires
absolutely mudding into my car but when
it comes to their computers and their
software it's like about this five years
ago it still runs well it's not the
point
yeah and it's that's a really
interesting analogy because like I work
in a computer shop and and I know like
if I take my car somewhere and and it
has something wrong with it something's
clanking under the hood and they say
it's gonna cost X number of dollars I'm
like oh okay
you know like sometimes it hurts but
it's got to be done yeah or maybe you
know maybe it's at the point where now
okay maybe I got a by something else but
you know that you're spending money at
that point so but in computers you're
right a lot of people will say oh you
know what now just they're running
servers with blown caps yes some people
are a little bit allergic to updates
like they're a little bit like software
scared hardware - part of the problem is
there's a mentality that comes with it's
like oh there's a software update
but there's bugs exam or this and then
they don't do the update you're on
Windows the truth of the matter is some
updates will break your system right so
that doesn't happen Sasha so it so it
makes sense that people be afraid
Michael I hear you so last week we
talked about how if you have a USB flash
drive plugged into your computer and
then the may update runs yeah it can
break your system and yet we have a
viewer Michael who reported that it
actually bricked to the system yeah so I
can understand why people wouldn't want
to do updates but the thing is when
there is no more support you got - yep
you got - yeah it's time keep on top of
it I mean you absolutely have to it's
tough it's certainly tough and in
business it costs a ton of money
it really can Amazon's
AI automatically tracks and fires
warehouse workers who it determines to
be under unproductive Amazon's
fulfillment centers are the engine of
the company massive warehouses where
workers track pack sort and shuffle each
order before sending it on its way to
the buyers door critics say those
fulfillment center worker workers face
strenuous conditions workers are pressed
to make rate with some packing hundreds
of boxes per hour and losing their job
if they don't move fast enough documents
obtained by the verge show those
productivity firings are far more common
than Outsiders realized in a sign letter
last year an attorney representing
Amazon said the company fired hundreds
of employees at a single facility
between August of 2017 and September
2018 for failing to meet productivity
quotas a spokesperson for the company
said that over at the time roughly 300
full-time associates were terminated for
in efficiency the number represents a
substantial portion of the facility's
workers a spokesperson said the named
fulfillment center in baltimore includes
about 2,500 full-time employees today
assuming a steady rate that would mean
Amazon was firing more than 10% of its
staff annually solely for productivity
reasons the numbers are even more
staggering in north america as a whole
amazon operates more than 75 fulfillment
centers with more than 125,000 full-time
employees suggesting thousands lose
their job with the company annually for
failing to move packages quickly enough
documents also show a deeply automated
tracking and termination process
amazon's
system tracks the rates of each
individual associates productivity
according to the ladder and
automatically generates any warnings or
terminations regarding quality or
productivity without input from
supervisors although amazon says
supervisors are able to override the
process ok critics see the system as a
machine that only sees numbers
people the system goes so far as to
track time off tasks which the company
abbreviates is T ot if workers breach
from scanning packages for too long the
system automatically generates warnings
and eventually the employee can be fired
amazon says retraining is part of the
process to get workers up to standards
and that it only changes rates when more
than 75% of workers at a facility are
meeting goals the bottom 5% of workers
are placed on a training plan a court
according to the company an appeal
system is also part of the termination
process workers have at times push back
against the company's productivity
requirements last year East African
immigrant workers at a Minnesota factory
facility organized protests against the
company saying they didn't have
sufficient break time including for
prayer in response Amazon has continued
to tout the benefits of working for the
company pointing to their hourly pay
rates and policies like parental leave
but the documents make clear that some
workers failing to me productivity
standards won't reap the benefits of a
job at all hmm right Jeff I feel like
you have a lot to say about this
questions comments what are your views
on this because I I'm on the fence a
little bit because I don't know all the
details I am also on the fence a little
bit because I okay I've seen it both
ways I have worked in places where if I
don't reach my goal or in my quota
I'm reprimanded and I'm working really
hard and somehow it just doesn't happen
then I've also been in places where
everybody seems to just be dragging
their heels are not working nearly as
hard as they could that's the thing
that's my perspective we live in a world
right now where people feel like things
are need to be handed to them on a
silver platter right let's take personal
days and let's let's use our vacation or
our sick days as vacation days and the
reason I'm on my phone is because this
is totally reminding me of an episode of
Doctor Who from season 12 where they
I had to visit a facility called
ker-blam and it's like it was so Amazon
and and this is absolutely ringing true
with that episode where it's this
massive warehouse and there are robots
that are controlling people getting
right okay okay so here's the thing
quite literally in Doctor Who I will
like completely let you talk at some
point Jeff but when it is pure data that
is terminating people it's really not
based on I guess emotion but we
understand from the the news that the
supervisor has the power to override and
that the bottom 5% go through training
processes to help them to better their
productivity right people should be
placing drops are good at if you are not
good at this job then you can't just
keep it if you're a bad boxer sorry but
it's time to go and it's the computer
telling you not me as your manager so I
feel a little bit better at that it's
really tough because I do understand the
side of it where there's the like the
slave labor mentality well I don't know
that that's really the case but I can I
can see how it's being spun that way and
putting Amazon in that in that light but
I think it's interesting that they can
that the technology can be used in order
to monitor and report productivity
because it is a real problem these days
yeah you wanna dance I think good yeah
go ahead go ahead this like I I
completely disagree with this okay I I
have no issue with a company setting
performance standards I have no issue
with a company setting targeted goals
and all that kind of stuff sure what I
have an issue with is the fact that is a
computer making the decision that the
fact is we are all human beings we all
have different things that are built in
so the problem with an AI generated
system that terminates employees is
that it doesn't have the built-in prompt
ration well not even compassionate cuz I
mean like if you if you remove all
emotion from it and you look at it from
say a legal standpoint yeah and you go
okay so so-and-so has a documented
disability in which they have an
accommodation and they have limitations
and restrictions on what they can do and
they can only move so fast but their job
Jeff I was quiet mm-hmm so so he's
saying Robby be quiet yeah exactly
okay go ahead but all that stuff you
can't just plunk into a system and have
the numbers work out because the fact is
there's a people factor and you cannot
have those decisions run by a computer I
can I can 100% see and I have no issue
with the company that goes based on our
performance metrics it appears you're
not up to snuff we would like to help
you get there you know when they talked
about training and stuff like that yeah
the fact that the computers like you
sucked at the door no I completely
disagree again is that how it's being
spun though that is 100% what the news
story said I know but and the supervisor
can override that yeah primary decision
but in capabilities rests with a
computer on whether humans are capable
of keeping up with data for the system
right that's not right Netflix needs to
make a document I worked for a bank and
at the bank I worked I had to sell
credit cards and lines of credit and I
sales job I am bad at it I am the worst
salesperson you I would rather just buy
things myself than sell them to anybody
else that's just who I am I am bad at it
and the computer every single month told
me I did not meet my sales goal and they
kept me at that job I think because I
was friendly even though I didn't do a
great job at all for a long time but I
wasn't the best person for that job if
right right like I just wasn't I wasn't
a good match I don't want you to have a
visa but like here's the thing so we
have an honest visa performance
measurement is everywhere in the
workforce you go to a McDonald's
drive-through and they have that little
clock that says this person
waiting more than the you know typical
30 seconds that it takes from all right
that's it go sweep up the cigarette
butts in the parking lot right could you
imagine if suddenly McDonald's
Institute's a computer that says sorry
teenage job worker making minimum wage
you missed 30-second window times by you
know 30 seconds on average over the last
week you couldn't flip the burgers fast
enough you're out the door like I'm
sorry life happens life happens you
cannot have a computer make the decision
what happens if your Amazon package is
really delayed we have to move on guys
have to move sorry I understand there's
a human factor we all go into work and
we have lousy days once in a while I'll
go into work and I have an unproductive
day right and I try in that moment I try
to at least you know I'll take calls and
I'll do what I can to at least you know
get some paperwork done or whatever
needs to be done but if I just went into
work and there are people who will go
into work at whatever job and just
dilly-dally
all day long chaton on facebook and and
do all this kind of stuff
those people need to be cut and the you
know unions I'm sorry hold those people
in their positions and I don't like that
so if there's a computer that says that
I know you will but if there's a
computer system that says okay this
person is just wasting company time
that's different I understand your
perspective of they're doing their job
but they're just not very good at it or
they need to get better or faster or
whatever they're not meeting quota
that's that's tough because yeah hey if
I've got a sore arm today which I do I'm
not going to be packing boxes quite as
fast as yesterday but how do you build
that into the app really so it's very
polarizing because you can't ever have
all the facts and that's why I say kind
of tongue-in-cheek
Netflix needs to do a documentary I want
to see what's really going on you know
what don't worry because there are more
stories coming up oh good more
polarisers knows hybrid switch console
now stands
thirty four point seven four billion
million units which which surpasses the
sales of the incredibly popular n64
Nintendo's latest financial earnings
results are now available giving us a
look at the company's hardware and
software sales for the past fiscal year
not only did Nintendo's recent spat of
switch exclusives sell an impressive
number of copies the switch console
itself has also hit a new sales
milestone during the fiscal year ended
March 31st Nintendo moved sixteen point
nine five million switch consoles while
that fell just short of the company's
revised plan to sell seventeen million
units during the fiscal year it did
represent a twelve point seven year on
year increase moreover it brought the
system's global sales thus far up to
surpassing the lifetime sales of the
Nintendo 64 which stands at thirty two
point nine three million this which has
been an impressive rebound for Nintendo
after the poor performance of the
company's previous home console the Wii
U which sold just thirteen point five
six million units over its lifetime the
switch on the other hand has been
selling well since launching back in
March 2017 managing to outsell its
predecessor in just 10 months however it
remains to be seen whether or not it'll
match the company's best-selling home
console the Wii which stands at one
hundred and one two point six three
million Wow III think they can do it
I think the switch can do it and I think
part of the failure of the Wii U is that
nobody needed a new console at that time
right it's like why are you bringing out
this new thing that's pretty much the
same thing just kind of revamped and
wanting me to buy this new thing like it
right well my we could play the the
Gamecube and a Nintendo Wii so you know
I'm perfectly happy with that I'm not
upgrading exactly now we're at a time
where yeah it's time to upgrade and the
switch is smart like the whole labo
thing no I know stem is a hot thing but
well they have lab OVR now it's
overpriced right just pop it in there
you can play Zelda VR now it's not gonna
be perfect by its legs but it's still
gonna be fun and it's gonna get people
still interested okay I think it's just
gonna be me a novels not a selling point
for me I know it's not for you but it's
not about you it's about is about right
it's it's not that it's all about I love
it and I probably won't buy a labo thing
but it's it's cardboard for a hundred
bucks right give me a break perfect that
is perfect no absolutely for some evil
marketing genius you boxes that we've
recycled and we've just repainted them
to make them look like a piano okay
absolutely genius idea but the game
console so here's the scenario we have a
55 inch TV hanging on the wall
downstairs yeah my daughter will be
using it but with the computer so just a
scenario but one of the boys want to use
the switch well she's on the TV so what
do they do they pick it up out of the
thing and they connect the controllers
and they go and I play it on the couch
exactly and it's like and then when
she's done on the TV they can take it
and plug it in and continue playing
their game and it's like fantastic right
and sometimes Dave and I are sitting on
the couch and he's playing a game where
I can you know also play say he learns
into the TV
well no plug it into the TV any
controllers you can the one controller
turns into two controllers and you just
flip it sideways and it's me this is
smart
Nintendo you've done well I think the
portability of it is what makes it so
appealing sure I mean cuz you can't walk
away with your xbox you can't walk away
with your PlayStation it yeah so the
fact that they said you know what how
can we multi-facet this platform so that
it's on your TV and you can bring it in
the car you could take it to the beach
you can sit in a boring meeting and play
like they thought of everything
the computer is going to fire you which
is good because the more you bring it
around the more the chances you're gonna
drop it break it needs buy a new one
hence selling millions of units and
that's called the Sascha method that's
the Sascha that's how she does it folks
Elon Musk has revealed that his neural
link startup is close to announcing the
first brain machine interface to connect
humans and computers yep the
entrepreneur took to Twitter it's it's
hell followers the technology would be
coming soon though he failed to provide
details neural link was set up in 2016
with the ambitious goal of developing
hardware to enhance the human brain
however a little about how this will
work has been made public the startups
website which is advertising vacancies
for 11 different jobs describes the
futuristic technology is an ultra high
bandwidth connection between the human
brain and computers mr. musk has
frequently claimed the rapid rise of
artificial intelligence poses an
existential risk to humanity such an
interface he says is essential if humans
are to compete with such technology in
the future speaking last year on the Joe
Rogan experience podcast mr. musk said
that neural links technology would allow
humans to effectively merge with AI a
paper published in Nature nanotechnology
in 2015 described a concept for this
connection explaining how a flexible
circuit could be injected into a living
brain Charles Lieber who co-authored the
study said we're trying to blur the
distinction between electronic circuits
and neural circuits we have to walk
before we can run but we can we can
really think how really really
revolutionized our our ability to
interface with the brain despite the
technologies potential to augment the
human brain experts have warned that the
brain computer interfaces risk being
hijacked by rogue artificial
intelligence they warn that such a
scenario could lead to AI controlling
the thoughts decisions and emotions of a
person using a brain computer linked
yikes
first of all I thought he was kidding I
mean he was hi this is a real thing
this is a real thing and you know what
in the right situation this is a great
thing in a battle against robots
however like can you imagine okay
because you only use what 10% of your
brain I don't even know the stats for me
like no people don't just don't use much
of their brain but if you had one of
these little doodad worm guys in my
keyboard right like a board oh yeah what
if it could activate different parts of
your brain and your just your awareness
could go up what if there are more
senses to have it has some really neat
potential right and it could be it could
it could help to make decisions based on
facts not emotions I think a are as an
example would be an incredible
incredible use for this type of
technology now Elon is kind of talking
about using it to be able to interact
with the computer in such a way that
because we have trouble like how can we
understand what an a what an AI is
thinking because we can't it can't be
visualized and it's too fast and too too
messed up for us to conceptualize so if
there's an interface that can allow us
to understand a little bit right about
what the AI is thinking then isn't that
different so you may not be able to
answer this question because you are not
Elon Musk but if somebody was speaking
to me in another language and I had this
hmm
could I just understand them sure
Universal Translator it's part of the
board technology right I don't see why
not I mean we already have that
technology it's in it's in your
smartphone and you can actually like my
phone with the AI chip it works really
really well and happens almost in real
time and you can get devices that do
that right could this take your vitals
in a way that if you were to be
suffering from carbon monoxide poisoning
it would alert you before you fall
asleep and I hate so that would take
augmentation with sensors rights
I'm thinking this is a great thing
hybrid cyborgs hey Jeff I just remember
when science fiction was fiction well
like yeah that's all you get from them
folks
yeah he's another one of those ones
where it could literally be the entire
show of debate back and forth but like
as you were reading this story and I
gotta try and be really quick about this
because I need to be need to be we're
out of time yeah but I feel like I
remember back when I was in university
that there was somebody who had was
quadriplegic that had hooked up some
sort of a transmitter to their head to
run components of their house opening
doors and stuff like that how neat I
mean that's going back to honey 15 years
ago okay but from the standpoint of your
brain runs off electrical signals so
could you in theory with this have
somebody hack into the computer
interface reverse the electrical signals
to now send signals to your brain to
mimic things like you now think you see
things that you're not actually seeing
your body reacts sure they are man you
could be hacked
what a great to have this kind of
interface and I I don't know if we
covered it on the show for something I
read but recently within the last like
three months I read about people who had
their there two different people who had
their brains hooked up to like 16
different electrodes that read
electrical impulses within the brain and
as one person thought of a number the if
the number popped into the other
person's head cool so I mean just with
that kind of back and forth electrical
signal to throw this kind of interface
and it's like there's a bad news and
that has some scary implications you
remember the black mirror episode where
the soldiers yeah we're seeing like
creatures right and so they were like we
need to kill all of those creatures and
really they were just like they were
just people right that's when I thought
they were the enemy in war yeah they
were genetically flawed that's what the
higher upset yeah you think they are
they were able to trick the soldiers
into thinking that this was
Humanite yeah absolutely human creatures
that they had to kill because they're
gonna take over right so it could go
really really bad it really could but it
could also be amazing because somebody
requires so much regulatory oversight
yeah oh yeah that's tough let's jump
over to coin gecko and see what the
crypto market looks like as of 1800
hours Eastern Time on Wednesday what is
today the first Wow the first of may
2019
okay Bitcoin everything's down a little
bit but Bitcoin is down 95 46 u.s. it's
down at five thousand three hundred and
thirty nine dollars and 23 cents
light coins at seventy two dollars and
27 cents US dollar
etherium that 158 25 Manero at 63 77
steli the little guy one point six ten
thousandth of a cent and turtle coin
hanging in at one point one seven ten
thousandths of a cent remember the
crypto currency market never closes and
is always volatile big thanks to Roy W
Nash in our community of yours at for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha Rickman I'm Ravi Ferguson and
I'm Jeff Weston stick around we're gonna
take a really quick break when we come
back I'm gonna be showing you how to fix
the interface of the GNU image
manipulation program should it go all
wonky on you stick around
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
everybody this is category 5 technology
TV I'm Robbie
I'm Sasha and I'm Jeff nice to have you
here we're just about at a time but
before we wrap up for the night I wanted
to take a look at the GNU image
manipulation program now I am actually
using this on a Raspberry Pi
microcomputer on our KK SB 13 inch
touchscreen and so this is what it looks
like on my screen and I'm actually
controlling that with my touch screen as
well I've got a keyboard here which I'll
just kind of have handy just in case I
need it but sometimes what can happen
with the GNU image manipulation program
keep in mind this is a free kind of
Photoshop alternative but you can get a
little bit confused in that hey there
these windows are kind of you know all
over the place see this so if I want to
exit the program how do you think I do
that well typically you know we're used
to pressing the X so if I let's grab
this window over here and I know you
can't see my mouse cursor so I'm just
gonna show you which window I am
touching I'm going to click on the X
there thinking that I'm going to close
the GNU image manipulation program
well now it's still up but I have no
tools I can't I can't find my way to
okay how do I get things back up and you
know so I can click around and I oh no
what have I done
okay let's exit I'm gonna click on the X
over here I'm trying
me and my sausage fingers almost there
now I've just got this picture and so
now what do I do and this is absent yeah
hit the X okay so let's try it okay so
now I've got I've lost my picture now
let's hit the X or I'll hit f4 on my
keyboard I guess I could do there we go
okay so now I'm good to go so let's
let's reopen the GIMP so now I've you
know come back to it the next day and
let's see I'm gonna I'm gonna start
working on some photos here
welcome to the GNU image manipulation
program 2.10 and OH
where's your stuff okay I need to add
text to this photo all right how do I do
that Jeff filters no image no so you see
kind of what I'm saying right you can
get because of the way that the
interface is if you're not familiar with
it it can get really really confusing so
I'm going to show you a really really
fast way to redeem it okay but then also
a way to prevent this from happening
again in the future so I'm gonna hit
edit and then preferences in preferences
there is one called window management
you see that it's highlighted black now
and there's a button at the bottom of it
that says reset saved window positions
to default values I'm going to click
that and it says your window setup will
be reset to default values the next time
you start GIMP so I'm going to say okay
sounds good okay and then I'm gonna
close the GIMP again and now let's
reopen the GNU image manipulation
program I'm using a flat pack here so
you can install this on Windows Mac
Linux it's absolutely free
and now okay so now this has actually
put me in single window mode now I want
to show you that though because you may
not get that automatically so now you
see all of my tools are back so I've got
my you know all of the editing tools
I've got my text editor there you go so
I can change my font and all that kind
of stuff right I've got it back now so
that's how I can quickly recover after
I've accidentally closed all of us those
tools right really really fast way to
fix it but then again now we saw really
briefly there what's called single
window mode so now what I want to do is
I want to actually click Windows and
then see at the bottom there yeah single
window mode it may or may not be the
default on your system but by doing that
now when I maximize that window it's all
part of the interface so these buttons
and everything are now integrated into
the interface so you're not going to
accidentally close them there's no X
there anymore
so now if I hit the X it actually closes
GIMP and I have to reopen it again let's
reopen it and see what it looks like now
now remember I'm running this on a
Raspberry Pi 3 not a B+ just a 3b and
it's running pretty good yeah there we
go so let's let's open an image and now
it's actually opening it within the same
window so I'm not gonna have that
problem anymore
where I'm losing things and now if I
click on X here I can actually close the
image but there you go so a real quick
fix for the GNU image manipulation
program grab it at gimp.org and do check
out single window mode if if you're
fairly new to the interface why would
you want it in separate windows mm-hmm
any guesses no it's just like stupid
case use do all screens when I use
triple screens Jeff I have so my I have
a monitor right in front of me that has
turned vertical so it's actually like
this yeah in front of me then on either
side I have my tools that make sense and
I can drag things from screen to screen
and I can do all the
editing that way so in that way it works
very very well and I can actually
maximize each window to each screen and
it's fantastic but if you're using one
screen yeah that's fantastic but as
you're just learning or you're using
just one screen switch it to single
window mode it's gonna save you a lot of
grief yeah that's all the time that we
have for this week folks it's been
really nice having you here don't forget
we are on Twitter you can follow us at
category 5 TV you can also follow me
personally at Robbie Ferguson I will
follow you back and I appreciate the
follow also if you want you can watch us
on YouTube I encourage you to subscribe
we have a special channel as well you
can search for us category 5 on YouTube
and you'll find us but you can also look
for Linux tech show and get there
through Linux tech show comm which will
take you to YouTube and that's really
cool because we take the one hour show
we edit it down to little 10 20 minute
segments so you can just watch the kind
of the meat of the episode also we're
available on roku Kodi Plex all kinds of
channels I mean on your on your roku
channel store you'll find category 5 TV
all of our shows are there but you can
also add us to your other platforms by
going to our github at cap 5 its
github.com slash cat 5 TV now of course
our main website brings everything
together including RSS feeds click on
subscribe you'll find everything you
need there and that is category 5 dot TV
for this week that's all the time so
we'll see you next week take care
everybody
