one of the tech that I'm looking at
right now actually in the middle of at
home is we've done away with our paid
minecraft server that we logged into
that the kids had access to and you know
like when I was traveling for work
yeah I'd be in a hotel room we log into
the server together and I'd be on the
phone with my kid and you know for like
an hour while I'm at home or while
they're at home and I'm in the hotel we
could play Minecraft together just that
I'll go Afghan acting remotely but I'm
using a Raspberry Pi to set up my own
at-home duel minecraft server one for
access through our pcs yeah and one for
Pocket Edition so the server is running
the software for both and once it's set
up no matter where we are we'll be able
to log into our home minecraft server
nice and have our own world and all the
kind of stuff but that way the kids have
full access to it they can have you know
give the login to their friends
it'll be behind those security features
of our network so it's safe and secure
that way but so you get to select who
joins the server right yeah but also
because it has the ability to do the
Pocket Edition server it means that on
their phones they can also stay
connected oh nice so now so that's what
I'm working on at home the the software
is installed I'm just configuring it
yeah I wasn't sure how it would run on
the Raspberry Pi because that's what
that's immediately what's coming to mind
because I'm like okay Raspberry Pi
unless you've got a four you're dealing
with one gig
no Ram it's a it's a three B+ and I
fought for sure it would be lagging yeah
but it's not what about world gen so if
you fly across the world is it is it I
haven't got I haven't gotten that far
yet okay so like I'm just I'm working
through the process of setting it up but
as far as running it on the on the PI
it runs okay there doesn't seem to be
any server lag with one of us joining
yeah it'll be you know the true test
will be when we add four five six people
oh yes
see how it goes but I was gonna do it
with my Audrey yeah that was an ex you
for yeah yeah yeah but I decided to give
it a try with the Raspberry Pi just
because of the the power usage yeah it's
a little bit lower and I had an extra PI
kick it around okay so yeah that's
that's the project that I'm working on
right now and and and if it works and it
runs well then maybe we'll do it as a
feature for the show that would be
awesome so PI 3b plus is limited to one
gig of ram versus an xu 4 which has two
gigs of ram right the 3b plus also is
limited to an SD card which is shared on
the USB bus so it's a little bit slow
yeah
whereas the xu 4 has the MMC yes so I
think if you have like a latent alike
not latency but issues with world gen I
think maybe the Xu form might resolve
that but also if you wanted to upgrade
to a PI for you can get up to 8 gigs of
ram I thought about that yeah see I just
had my birthday last week and the great
thing about being not a kid anymore when
it comes to birthdays
it's people like I don't have to give
you I just gave you cash so it's like
I've got all this cake I like use it for
something you want I'm like yes computer
you want to know what's interesting
though and along those lines like
there's so much work to set it up and
get it working well the people that
created I always have trouble with it
B'Elanna ature mmm milena yep so the
tool that we use to image our SD cards
yes MMC great program by the way yeah
they also have Bal enna minecraft what
yeah so they've created an image which
is available through their github and
I'll post the links below but with
vilena minecraft they've optimized it to
to run as well as can be this is
minecraft minecraft or or certai it's a
server for Raspberry Pi now but they do
warn that one gig of ram you're gonna
have trouble yeah and I think that's
what you'll encounter because the
the fear that I have with a 3b plus is
the minimum system requirements for
minecraft as a server is one gig right
well if you only have one gig where's
the overhead for your operating system
when everything else is running right so
that's where the the pi4 comes in with
eight gigs of RAM
yes yeah but yeah I wanted to try it on
the raspberry it worked
but if it doesn't work out then I'll go
to the xu4 and maybe I'll spend that
birthday money it's just maybe I four
and then get an argon one yeah I'm
telling you it's awesome it's like what
do you guys think give him a thumbs up
will ya
