we have five sets of Bluetooth
headphones because we reviewed a couple
in it they keep sending us more and so
it's like okay well how do you review
Bluetooth headphones we've tried the
dummy head and it's like okay well
YouTube just erupts and says well that
sounds terrible and it's like okay well
you're listening to it on your laptop
speakers so it's not really a realistic
replication so really when it comes down
to headphones the only way that we can
express to you whether they're good or
not is our own opinion exactly it's like
okay does Sasha think those ones sound
great well what does Robby think and
what does Geoff think let's pass these
around we've got five sets of headphones
we're gonna be taking a look what do we
have we have the amazing mix coder hd9
oh ones and these ones are well they are
roughly around like 30 bucks I'm like
we're looking at kind of entry-level
price stuff we also in that price market
we have the power locus headphone so
we've got these ones that you have epi
threes the ones that I have on here
these now they've learned from their
mistakes with the serialization so the
product number of this one is like this
big long code no worries we have links
for you at cap 5 DB slash headphones but
we've reviewed these ones on the show as
well we're going to talk about that
minor the blue t OT monitor that's right
and then we also just kind of stepping
things up because I want to answer the
question well is it really worth
spending more we also have another pair
of headphones here and these are from
Edifier and Edifier we've actually
reviewed their speakers
they make an incredible speakers
fabulous speakers so I really wanted to
feel like what are their headphones like
and and I'm excited about this I want to
I want to give these ones a try because
I can feel them in my hand they have a
half to them these are the W eight six
zero and B's oh you're right they do
they really do like feel that versus
that total total difference yeah like
easily double the weight okay here sash
not that that's it like hey yeah okay
well that's worth the extra price no but
yeah ways
no that is a fritter to put in because I
mean if you had to be wearing headphones
for say six seven hours yeah the weight
does that well but we're gonna be Wayne
ah see how I did that we're gonna be
weighing the factors that we as
listeners feel are important the sound
quality the comfort the aesthetics
things like that
so let's give these a try you ready
alright now we all on our personal
phones have our favorite music our
personal favorite music loaded up we're
going to sync the bluetooth headphones
to our phones and give these a try so
that we can give you an honest
impression as to which one of these five
is perhaps our favorite and which one
comes in second place and why well let's
give this a go okay fire it up folks
okay
[Music]
[Applause]
play with the noise-canceling without
the music on no I don't know what that
is
ANC no I didn't turn that on okay do it
now be the best so I put that on yeah so
we're talking flip the toggle switch and
here what right does it just fall away
like okay that alone number five like
that is our number one one is the best
what is the best that's the number one
simply that alone what try right okay
seriously and there's I haven't even
paired it yet there's a button there's a
switch here that says ANC what does that
stand for I'm gonna maybe I don't know
but like seriously it mutes the war
awesome noise cancellation like okay
so we're talking while you flip that
toggle squared is the sound of the
family here are the difference is like a
sound of the fan go Sasha not only that
like the reverberation within the voices
like it changes everything
okay simply from like think of a kid
with autism who's in a class puts on the
headphones to deal with audio that
feature right there being able to make
the difference between hearing the
teacher and then turning it off and on
mind blowing that's really so teachers
if you see your autistic child in the
class go like this okay now you
understand noise cancellation an active
noise can talk to the kids okay okay do
your review yeah Wow okay thank you
my active noise-cancelling okay that was
that is really cool goodness
okay can I hear this yeah okay I'm gonna
take out my earbuds okay here we go
oh okay
are you kidding me is this seriously
what you're playing yes no yes can I say
it you can't sing it okay at least fast
forward to Figueroa you're somewhere
around here
is that right spot
you can't even hello wah I can't even
hear my own frickin voice why what okay
now no I didn't even know with the touch
volume control I gotta look at that
hello hello
wow that's displacing right we're okay
well I'll turn for a second I want to
check something okay okay have you gone
back like forward backwards no no not up
and down forward or backwards
well that rewind it it okay yeah I like
the touch yeah yeah but are you toggle
in the N see what sorry I have anal
noise cancellation were you targeting
the agency even to hear the the
difference in the song right okay talk
to me okay so I'm just sounds like like
like p OD or something it is this p OD
oh did it go to p OD it went to p OD
okay yeah is it P OD I wanted to switch
from Bohemian Rhapsody well because I I
flipped my alright cuz you felt when
back again put it back on Queen is that
p OD no no it's it's a it's Bohemian
Rhapsody now Joey put on beauty okay no
I hear it okay now flip the anc no
fancies on yeah okay but do you hear the
way that's sorry what
no I can't hear you but when I turn that
off
no but the difference I can hear yeah
but the difference in the song even the
song changes I can't like I can't make
out your words but I can hear you but
when I turn on an see I cannot hear
anything in the room I can't even hear
my own voice that is trippy that's
really weird
that is so weird walk around the house
Becca can you hear me going seriously
seriously I couldn't hear my own voice
when I turn on the an see
can you hear me right now talk to me
talk okay
oh I don't know I'd like to hear me but
turn off the antsy switch it's just a
digital switch and then and talk talk
talk so then right is that weird yeah
what I've never I've never tried an C
that's wild
we have just tested all five sets of
headphones yes I gotta be honest our
minds are kind of blown right now well
you had your prettiest flower yes okay
so where do we start let's start with
something that we've already seen here
on the show these are the power locusts
now I joked about how they've improved
their naming mechanisms but these are
these you ready for this PwC P ITT UK
bluetooth 4.2 + edr headphones that's
the pork put UK yeah we we saw these on
episode number 566 of category five
technology TV yeah and what I like about
these is that it has an SD card reader
yes yeah okay now if I recall correctly
from that episode it was only like two
or three file formats that it actually
played you know what I don't I don't
care no fair enough but if somebody has
a plethora of file formats with their
music they need to be aware of that you
may have to do some okay so with the SD
card reader yes SD card reader yeah okay
so remember these are bluetooth
headphones so they connect to your phone
and they'll play whatever you're playing
yeah no matter what format it is if your
phone will play it it will play the SD
card reader I just simply loaded my mp3s
on it so and when I say I don't care
it's like I'm just gonna put mp3s on it
write it simple
it up with my favorite mp3s and then I
can use these without having to have my
phone in my pocket right I don't need
bluetooth I can use just the mp3 card
yeah okay so how did these rank for you
guys
the p3s yeah so let's say okay so we're
ranking based on our perceived sound
quality the sound quality of these blue
do headphones so Sasha what do you think
sound 8 out of 10 so 8 is pretty high so
that's look great I check these sound
really good yeah you know Jeff what do
you think so I didn't realize we're
giving number scheme I actually have
like written comments oh okay so sorry
we're talking perceive sound quality so
I would give this one a six yeah yeah
and the reason why I found that there
was a little bit of a muddy bass to it
okay just when you get some of those
really deep like I had two different
songs that is flipping back and forth on
one of them was for p OD very basic song
called boom the other one was Bohemian
Rhapsody from Queen neat and so two very
different styles of music and I wanted
to hear the difference between the two
and I found with a very basis aw it was
quite muddy
mm-hm and so for that reason I was like
yeah not a huge fan all right six for me
as well comfort wise these are pretty
comfortable at about a six out of ten
okay what do you think yeah ah comfort I
gave him a nine but they were reminding
me see you didn't fight on my head yeah
you you thought these were really quite
comfortable yes yeah yes good my only
complaint the heart plastic top I found
if it wasn't sitting perfectly where the
crown like there's not a lot of padding
here is what is yakking about fuck if
you hit that like pointy crown on your
head there's always like that curve
party no but there's always that current
like if it's not sitting on kind of that
like the Shelf of that of the skull
it doesn't feel I fine I do find them
pretty comfortable but I'm not quite as
as willing to give a high number I'm
gonna say so yes yeah yeah I had seven
because the ear pieces were quite common
the looks of the headphones I give it a
out of ten I think they look pretty good
but they're a little bit far out from
the head what do you think I really
liked mine yeah okay that's good yeah
yeah oddly enough I didn't know how to
score this one because I feel like they
tried to go cool yeah and it was kind of
like a really bad Tron effect it's not
bad at all dude pretty good but it's
kind of plasticky I'm just the kind of
reviewer I'm very reluctant to give high
scores because I think that the next
best thing is going to be higher so when
I say six I'm like that is really quite
good it's not like average it's above
average I think that's probably give
that a 7 okay they're not bad
all right fair enough they're not great
okay the power locus PW CPI TT UK I have
to say I love this the SD card feature
of it so I have to add that to my review
they are quite comfortable and they
sound good
I will say and this could be just the
weirdest thing for me is anyone that has
the L and the R that haunts you that's a
really big deal I gotta say that is
that's fair enough
because you look at something like this
and it's like okay well which one is
left which ones right yeah and
automatically I get confused these games
are easy and and when she says that
folks I mean come on you can't mistake
that you can see that that's an R that's
an L it's printed right on the like it
that's huge you can't miss that's fair
enough I will say the one thing about
the design of that I was not a fan of
mmm is the buttons I really what I'm
wearing them it was difficult to
differentiate because I have kind of
meaty fingers you're gonna get used to
that though no but I V fair I get that
but still it's not protruded enough to
really define like if you're jogging or
something it's like oh yeah track all
right wrap I turned it off fair enough
fair enough in that maybe you're not
gonna sense the tactile nature yes okay
without reason I don't have a problem
with these to be honest Jeff you got
like little skinny type or fing thank
you I've got pretty man beef
so okay for simply before that reason
alone that's why I rated these a five
they won't get worst because the buttons
your score so we have five sets of
headphones my score is I'm putting these
at the fourth place okay and I do that
reluctantly because I do really love
these power loka's headphones so I say
that let's just say none of these
headphones are losers this week oh no
they're all really good yeah I really
like those I want to be clear though
when I say that these are in my fourth
place I love these headphones I really
really do they're comfortable they work
great and they sound great and I love
that SD card feature I absolutely do I
love that I can put like a load of mp3s
on there and just play it without having
to use my phone yes without having to
drain my battery which is nice yeah
so when I say these are my fourth out of
five that sounds low so it makes it
sound like hey these ones suck no they
don't these are really really great so
actually for like all of these for the
price point these are all phenomenal for
what you can get you got it
they use them in the gym three times a
week and love them fantastic these are
twenty seven bucks okay let's move on
let's move on to the mix coder HD 901 s
now these are like where did these come
from these are only 24 bucks okay okay
so these are like the cheapest ones that
we have they do not fold up like the oh
they do I didn't realize not like that
okay no but they do it those were
actually the most comfortable on my head
Wow
they they did feel you know what I did
notice very comfortable I will say
though if you have big ears you're not
gonna like them I did I do you have big
ears like were you like I don't have big
ears play I I have very good at least I
think I have proportional shaped ears
and if somebody has very round ears
because of the narrow nature of those
they're gonna squish the ears I don't
know they feel really quite comfortable
and I like that they're on an angle they
are they're not like cuz my ears are not
straight up and down like some
headphones are yes these headphones take
into a
out that my ears are on a bit of an
angle yep so you see that when I put
that on see that folks I do believe me
like half a centimeter extra would make
all the difference no it was perfect
yeah these feel pretty good to me
actually yeah I do like that they have
an SD card reader as well so understand
when I say these have an SD card reader
I don't have to have a phone handy in
order to listen to these I can load up
an mp3 card like just Jack full of mp3
files an SD card and just push play and
do my jogging and do my workout and not
have to worry about it because I do
workouts all the time as you can tell
nobody if I did then that would probably
be a really nice thing these ones have a
bit more padding for me I found the
sound quality a little bit thin like not
a whole lot of low-end but they did
sound really good mm-hmm see what just a
little bit on the thin side that's funny
and I I noticed that the mid rate
mid-range was a bit lost
yeah when you have a predominant low end
mm-hmm when you have a very equally
mixed song it's a good mix but as soon
as you get a predominant bottom end
middle completely disappears isn't that
interesting
yeah so it kind of changes the
headphones yeah fit wise well I should
ask how did you feel about the sound
quality thing I should say for the
record that you guys speak in a
different language when it comes to
sound and that's okay that's okay
and this is part of it right were three
different people Jeff is from a radio
background I'm like a just an audio nerd
and Sasha your every single one of PSW
yeah exactly the same to me every single
you love music yes did this sound good
though yes okay these were actually my
top pick these are my absolute favorite
I mostly like comfort comfort comfort is
the thing they feel really good and
there are only 24 bucks appeared on my
hat like I felt like I wasn't wearing
well really yeah you know what am i yeah
I can see that I would agree with that I
mean not that they disappeared on my
head but they were by far the most
comfortable first thing as soon as I put
them on the first thing I was like I'm
not even turn these on yet very
comfortable
yeah Wow yeah I put a nice fit it was a
good fit eight and eight and a half for
me out of comfort and as far as the
aesthetics and the look of it
these ones sit a little closer to my
head that some of these headphones kind
of like they feel like they're floating
out here yeah so to me that aesthetic is
not very attractive
these ones feel like like when I look at
them I don't know what you folks think
but I think that these look really good
so I'd say nine oddly enough I hope they
feel really yeah so for you
aesthetically these ones didn't look as
good to you to me they were just it
really was nothing look great on Sasha
too like they like just I think you have
they were very uniform like there's you
don't see hinges you don't see anything
about them that is like oh that's a cool
feature there's a little bit of that
like textured like spinning bevel on the
side but other than that they're just
black plastic that's kind of matted oh
come on I like a little bit of flair
okay okay that's fair enough
okay so you got that wrong so we got to
put some bows on it for Jeff Oh sound
wise I found them a little bit thin but
they were comfortable as heck yeah they
have really good sound don't get me
wrong when I say they're a bit thin they
just had a little bit of a drop-off on
the low end maybe a little bit of a
cueing could do that like improve that I
put this at three on my list
okay okay number one these are your okay
so she's taking these ones home folks
that's how it works around here cap
number one for you is the same as number
one for Robbie okay let's let's jump
into another set of the these guys the
what are these ones series because they
learned from their mistakes when it
comes to the hit the naming and they
call these ones the p3s I do like the
aesthetics of these ones yes they look
pretty they were my favorite
aesthetically
is a bit of a color flare not to
definitely be in your face perfectly but
also the there was the shine to it that
I really appreciate it
these are only 28 bucks folks oddly they
were they were not my favorite I like
the buttons as well I guess everything
feels really good and because it was the
buttons are so far parkas they're all on
that circle these are tactile button it
was very nice to work with so for me I
found that there wasn't a lot of bass in
here it kind of felt like listening to
like that phone sound like a telephone
yes you know what I mean like that thin
kind of sound now for 28 bucks that is
reasonable but considering the mix
coders we're only 24 right right
please once felt a bit thin yeah it was
because of the bass yeah that I think
those would be my last choice okay but
they're not fair enough okay
these were my last choice but before we
get to that the comfort wise I felt that
they were very very round right here so
it felt like I was taking this and
putting it on my ear yeah and and that
is exactly what it looks like right so
do you guys agree with that it sounds
like you do for the fact that I love the
other power Lukas so much okay and I
think because I tried those first and
then I was comparing against I disliked
those right but I really like the other
one see and it's unfortunate because I
like the looks of these yeah I really
like the looks of these yeah they're not
again these are not bad headphones they
are my last pick tonight out of these
five that we're looking at these are not
bad no but I feel like maybe they're a
little bit junior sized I would agree
with that they don't feel right on my
head I might think that these would work
really really well for my kids but I
don't like the feel of it yeah it just
feels like it's sitting on top of my ear
rather than cupping over my ear yes
and I did find these have the same issue
as the other power locusts in the act
that the crown of the head it starts to
fatigue a bit oh yeah that's what I fit
both of them I've done the same
think a little bit more padded but it
feels it feels okay to me Jeff but it's
the sound and the and the and the feel
of it but okay yeah I'm just gonna set
these inside and just say you know what
this was my fifth choice yeah how about
you fifty death they were three but I'm
underage think I'm questioning that now
okay I think because they were the first
one I reviewed by the time I got through
the others I was like oh there was a
certain wonder but now that as we're
talking about anyone yeah you know what
I think I would probably put them at
five okay and I think I'd move the other
two up all right so let's set these
aside all right that's the power locus
p3z
all right so now we've got the these are
the blue Tio's and i really like these
and you notice there's some wear and
tear here yeah that means you really
love them Wow yeah I've been using these
ones personally oh good that's why
they're wet so these blue Tio's we
reviewed on episode number 585 category
five technology TV and I've been using
them day in day out since then and you
know my personal experience is the
batteries last for freaking ever like
they are fantastic they do get a little
bit annoying kind of like any Bluetooth
headphones where you know eventually
they start saying battery low when
they're at like 30% and it's like okay I
know I'm gonna get another 12 hours out
of this yeah so just leave me alone
right like there should be a mute button
they do that a lot but hey I mean that
is what it is and if you put it on your
charger it's not gonna but you get a lot
of battery life out of it they sound
good I really like the comfort of these
I've enjoyed using them good for me
they do sound a little bit on the tinny
side compared to say like the power
locusts headphones but they feel really
good on my head it's funny that you call
it tinny
well I'm like not like a little bit of a
taper off at the baseline yeah I what
I'm listening to it the best way I could
describe it is uncompressed I feel like
the rest of them had like a built-in
compression what I actually appreciated
about these is I feel more natural they
felt more natural like so because I was
flipping between the two songs yeah when
i had p OD playing and like there was
the thumping bass and everything it was
good i felt like there was a lot of
range going on
you know I flipped a queen one of the
things I noticed is I picked up that
kind of old-school hiss you get from
recordings there isn't that interesting
yeah whereas none of the others you you
got it I was like oh that's interesting
so I think just that I guess I call it
lack of compression you picked up that
broader range and some of those subtle
nuances within the music that really
gave an authentic feel to the music mmm
and for me that was like who these are
these are gonna be my number one really
really appreciating your reviews like I
want you to review all my stuff yeah
like just like come on over and just
like eight go through my friends okay
yeah for me yeah I can see that now that
you mention it and I do appreciate that
very very much I mean I'm an old soul
and I love like we were talking before
the show about like LPS and yes and
record players and things and that and I
feel like if you had a recording if you
know say record players I think you
would pick up that that little like with
the blue T oh yeah I think it would be
these are not expensive like these are
not 39 bucks when I saw it I was like
okay yeah bucks seriously that's great
yeah I I think I think those are right
near the top okay and I do love these I
have to say I have been using these and
I love them comfort wise again I'm very
conservative with my reviews and and I
am NOT though you look at my Amazon
reviews and if you find a 5 out of 5 you
know it is incredible like it's like
four out of five if I love it
right so I say seven I is seven as far
as comfort goes
I gave them an e yeah they are really
really cozy they got good cushioning
they do they feel really good yeah and
what I also like that they have a
slightly retro feel to them oh yeah like
you have the metal pieces you've got the
cable that you can see all of these
others have the exact you know of them
have the exact same style as you I was
like the fold up and the plastic and the
form right
these I they do cover coming multiple
colors I don't know if that is one
them you can go to cap five TV slash
headphones to find out though there are
several colors there like a whole
spectrum yeah these ones yeah you're
right they don't fold up I'm not even
gonna try cuz I will just break this
link just bend it and break it my rank
as far as my favorites go this one fella
number two just say for me yeah yep it
was it was definitely number two so it's
gonna be a fight to the death I put them
in number three number three yeah so we
all agree that the blue Tio's are for
the the lower-cost
bluetooth headphones are probably like
some of the best yeah I would say
they're pretty good price point compared
ibly yeah those would be a number one
these are all approximately the same
price and these are really really good
yes yeah yeah I I would agree with that
if you're doing budget shopping for
Christmas and you're like oh well I got
thirty-eight dollars to spend mm-hmm
that's your gift yeah yeah yeah I'd have
to say I agree with that yep these these
are really quite nice yep I agree but
then stepping it up yes and really
stepping up the price point with the
Edifier 's Edda fires we know are really
good quality product but they have great
product I feel like Jeff you're probably
leaning the same direction as me yes and
that is you stay there while I take
those at the door yeah these are my
number one from what we experienced
today okay first of all again I'm
feeling that they're a little bit thin
but the sound quality is exceptional
with these and after I had already
written all my notes
you showed us about the active touring
kit there's a noise cancellation feature
and as soon as I activated that now I'm
like wow he and more so I'm like
impressed with these yeah they're really
good first of all comfort wise I don't
think I've ever put on a pair of
headphones that made me feel so blissful
that's a great way of describing it oh
my goodness
blissful seriously I use an exclamation
mark I'm like dad
the blue do is yeah they feel great for
hours like any of these they'll feel
great for hours on end
maybe not quite the P threes but
certainly the more comfortable ones
definitely the mixed coders will feel
good for four hours on end yeah these
ones I feel like they feel like I'm just
putting air on my head yes they just
they're so nothing they're so good the
padding is so superb yeah it just feels
so it's like it's like memory foam yeah
on my head I will say that I don't like
that these are part of the mix because I
feel like they're in a different class
they kind of are and that's why I say
hey from these let's say the blue Tio's
are the best and then let's say okay
well what is it you know what is a
hundred and twenty dollar set of
headphones like yeah and then you're
like well these are really quite nice
yeah if if money is not the factor when
it comes to what you're looking for
you can't compare it well you can but
you can't compare the Edifier to the
blue Tio's sure I mean for the price
point videos are the way to go yes but
if you have you know 150 bucks to blow
and like these are amazing and can I say
right now cat five dot TV slash
headphones and I say this in 2019
November till Christmas there's a twenty
dollar coupon so you'll get these for a
hundred bucks
okay and I don't say this is not
late-night like but it's legit and
that's an amazon coupon has nothing to
do with us I'm just telling you that hey
it is a deal yep you have a left and
right obvious on the inside yes what I
like about those is they did turn just
like none of these did they turned these
did they adjust to the shape of your
head a little more yeah they've got that
like in-and-out turn yeah so for me
comfort wise did did anyone else give
this a 10 yeah I give it a 10 a 10 yeah
yes but I had what well I gave it a 10
but I had a hard time because I did I
felt bad giving it a test
you are emotionally attached are you
kidding me okay guys you gotta try these
on
yeah I honestly never like we've worked
in radio and TV for a long time they
feel amazing I've never put on a pair of
headphones that make me feel so like wow
yeah like that feels so good
and you actually all three of us we're
all wearing glasses though I did not
notice that I was wearing glasses yeah
aesthetics wise these ones also stick
out a little bit but I still feel like
they look pretty good
so I given eight okay is that fair
mm-hmm I feel like if you give it a nine
then we know you at least you love it
right now you're just really unlike with
it well I just compare that to to the
mix coders yeah that's the mix coders to
me feel like like if I look at these
aesthetically so if I was like walking
down the street wearing these versus the
mix coders mix coders look nicer yeah
that's okay so but if I'm looking for
like the comfort and sound quality yeah
these Atta fires are amazing yeah you
cares I like that that is night and day
yeah putting the two of those on the
touch controls are pretty neat you know
so I was so in volume up is like like
this yeah it's kind of rub and then like
fast-forward is just kind of like flick
your finger across this and now what no
buttons what I didn't like is oh that's
just that's it okay so if you're gonna
say okay this is this flappy thing is
just so that you know you know oh okay
this is a new purchase so this is just a
sticker to show you hey this is how it
works but as soon as you've bought it I
thought that was a lecture okay no
that's totally awesome so now I know how
this works I don't need that right now I
know that's up volume is down better
that's fine that's right okay so just
keep that in mind I really like those
touch controls those are pretty cool and
as I mentioned the the antsy Oh active
noise cancellation is that the Stasi was
mind blowing I've had noise-canceling
headphones before with a toggle switch I
remember having a Marian radio we're
going back 20 years but I've had
headphones with noise canceling none of
them have performed the same as those
that was spot-on perfect beautiful it
was great now as far as sound quality I
had high expectation because Edifier
makes great speakers yes the headphones
did not disappoint they have yeah I
agree with there was very clear top-end
there was no overbearing wavelengths or
sound fluctuations it was an excellent
mix on all levels and I flip between
like I said peyote and Queen yeah to get
to dari variant that silence yeah very
good and they were spot-on there was
nothing that I was like that's off it
was perfect
very very well calibrated these are my
number one as well yeah mine too
anybody else well yes where do these
fall on your list well they're in a
different list but they're number one on
the different list the list of one so i
from 1 to 5 with these 5 so there one
there tied for first
what is the second tie these ones
oh the mix coders yes yeah okay these I
like those ones for me better yeah i
legit we're the person buying the
headphones for myself yes because I
can't tell the difference between the
noise the sound by these they don't it
wouldn't make a difference to me okay so
we need to touch on that because okay so
Sasha is saying the $24.00 ones to her
are the equivalent of the hundred and
twenty dollar ones aren't like trained
like your ears right so so what is it
that you love about these these ones are
really comfortable yeah like I feel like
when I put them on like they just they
adjust well they feel good they're thick
they fit right over my ears perfectly
yeah I just really really like these
ones cool yeah so if you're you know if
you're shopping around you know think
about what you've heard
today yeah I think that if anything
we've been unbiased and we've shared
what our favorites are and what our key
points are with these particular
headphones I think that's a very
interesting thing that you know the the
two gents on the set here are both going
for these a defiers we're gonna fight to
the death after the show for who gets to
bring them home I think it's gonna be me
but you've got these ashes really keen
on the mix coders and that's really
interesting because they're a really
separate price point yeah very separate
price point from the very low end at $24
to the higher end at 120 dollars or $100
if I use the coupon but what a
difference that is right now I the
interesting thing is obviously we're
doing this review on visual and
performance I think we probably could
take this up a notch to really key in on
some major differences for instance the
battery length yeah battery length I
think could be a deciding factor between
if I were with the Edifier 's versus the
blue Tio's because if it like same
battery that's where I'm going but if
it's a difference yeah I may not to be
honest yep if I may any of these devices
like these days here in 2019 they all
last yeah the lecture realistically
you're not gonna they last longer than
you can use them in a day all agree I
agree but I like that there's like I
like being able to put him down at the
end of the day know that I can come back
to them tomorrow and not having by
halfway through the day if I get two
full days out of device it's great the
other thing is if I'm taking these to
the gym yeah I would like to know how
those pearly because they are more
cushiony are they more likely to move
around if I'm running on the treadmill
which I do not run by the way versus the
blue Tio's yeah you know so these ones
maybe the best bet
that way they really feel slightly
potentially yes but I mean if I was just
sitting around doing audio productions
their stuff like yeah hands down that's
where I'm going okay so maybe that's it
maybe it's like okay if you are
the active sort sasha mix coders right I
feel snug they they really do yeah I
feel great and you wouldn't if you're
about bringing these anyway oh sure like
you wouldn't for 24 bucks exactly and if
you're the studio file like Jeff or I
then maybe it's we're going to more
toward the Edifier yes because we want
that long to sit down at the laptop with
the Bluetooth connected and being
producing something for hours no that's
different I feel like we should have
also I should have brought in my house
of Marley's I love oh I have some of
those headphones like I yeah there's not
too many things that I would give up
before my house of Marley's yeah that
backward to me that's I don't know to me
that's nostalgic house of Marley's were
like my first bluetooth headphones
they're fantastic I still use them I
love them mine broke yeah that's right
they do yeah yeah yeah so I would love
to put those up against the house of
Marley's because the House of Marley has
spot-on sound and you can wear them for
days yeah exactly
of course I still use them years later
it's so good yeah so so I mean you've
learned a lot here today if anything I
think what we've established here in you
to tell me if this is wrong so if you're
looking on the low end I think the clear
risers low in price yes price-wise I
think the clear winners are the mix
coders as far as comfort and sound
quality and yeah the blue Tio's as far
as like overall like like for the studio
file yeah so the the active person the
studio file yes on that price point
absolutely the studio file however who
wants to take it a step further
I think the Edit fires are the clear
choice okay you know what's interesting
yeah same brand and they got left out
and and I say that however I must say
that these ghosts
yeah these didn't exist those would be
my favorite but the interesting thing is
the microSD
they got left and it's funny how but
little fish left out though Jeff
remember I said it at the top I know all
of these are fantastic
I'm gonna kind of leave these ones out
because they are not as comfortable as
any of the other ones that we have here
these are these guys from like if Jeff
gets these I think I should get both of
these because it's still I have to say
though from para locus these are
fantastic oh they're so like these are
right on the threshold of being like oh
they are awesome
okay so let's be clear about that yeah
those ones kind of follow a little bit
behind the P threes
these guys they're up there now which
one was the newer model the P threes
interesting yes huh not to say that like
like these are still active like these
are still being produced right you can
still get these on Amazon for sure all
of these headphones are available cap
five dot TV slash headphones so just buy
them all and then go ahead do your own
compare and contrast these ones these
ones are at my house so we'll see you
later
