you know having that kind of
interactivity it's 98% of blessing it's
2% of curse yeah we get almost real-time
feedback about how people feel about the
show right so so that's kind of an
amazing thing I mean I'm not gonna lie
there were probably a couple of things
that we tweak last year based on some
information we got you know if it's like
the general trend from posts or about
something will occasionally look at that
ourselves and maybe change part of the
script or reshoot something small I mean
we don't we don't see change scripts and
things but are you able to are you able
to come up with an example of such a
scenario yeah I mean well I mean for
telling tales out of school the a/v Club
who is very they become real fans of
ours we love their reading they they
made it offhanded comments about the
Kalon outfits and you know next thing
you know we were we were you know amping
up some battle stuff even though they
meant it as a compliment it's like you
know alright alright we save we can fix
that we can make them more horrifying
yeah so some stuff for 13 4 to 13 the uh
finale we we didn't pick ups I mean
that's that's the short of it but it's
it's more just like a generalized sense
of okay this is how the fans are feeling
this is what they appreciate about us
you know we we are here for them so you
know we would like to you know we'd like
to like know what they are thinking and
it feels from a fan perspective it
really feels like the evolution of of
being able to be entertained because
we're interacting with the very creators
of the show so it's it's a really
interesting yeah exactly so so thinking
of the social media piece is there any
particular type of interaction that that
you behind the scenes or even the cast
and the crew of the show that you really
love to receive I mean before about how
like once again were were so
about the work that we finally gets like
release to you guys yeah so it was
always exciting when we would turn it on
when it was all you know Thursday nights
we turn it on and we would all of the
we'd be more glued to the Twitter live
day oh no like it's we're like we're
feeling it with you guys because we've
watched it we've watched it without any
visual effects leave wash it with visual
effects we'd watch it without color wisp
or without like we've seen it probably a
hundred times one time you guys have
seen it so in order to get that like one
more fresh eye and somebody will I mean
we do a really really good job to make
sure you don't leave any cops in there
but but we really like to a make sure
that what we've been seeing and enjoying
and pitching and you know seeing through
is exactly what everybody else is
excited about and having the reactions
that we're intending to have so yeah
it's really awesome to get that live
that life feedback from the fans whether
it be good bad ugly or otherwise I mean
usually looking friends for working you
know we don't wait we go to the wire
sometimes just because the massive
amount of the show so yeah it's fifteen
of us out bright outside here scrolling
through our phones something that we
glossed over I didn't think would play
that they someone loves or it's like
something we thought would be like the
biggest point you know the biggest point
just glows like yeah so do you got it
like you got to stop yourself for being
like guys did you notice that particular
thing there's one thing I kind of like I
snuck in there was during the episode
when they find the iPhone we never like
got a time on like what time it was
supposed to be so I was like make it 143
that'll be my I love you to the audience
boom there it is I snuck that in I love
you guys now everybody you realize
everybody's gonna be looking for it now
so there's a recurring cast of Internet
characters that we I mean it's it's
pretty vast but you know there's
probably 500 or a thousand recurring
superfans maybe even more that we all
try to interact with and yet they all
have their own personalities their own
interests and that that is probably the
best part of the job because whenever
I'm not feeling so great about the gig
one of them will be up good a good man
