our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 dot TV
welcome to the show everybody it's great
to have you here some folks were asking
me hey you talk about nimble streamer at
the top of every show well what on earth
is nimble streamer and it's really
really cool so as a web caster as a
broadcaster one of the things that one
of the things that we need to be able to
achieve is being able to send a signal
to multiple endpoints
I think churches and businesses are also
experiencing this right now because
we're in this strange time where even
non broadcasters are having to broadcast
and we're finding things like well not
all of our viewers or congregants or
staff are on Facebook so we need to also
be able to stream to YouTube and we need
to also be able to stream HLS to a Roku
player and things like that so so what's
really really cool about nimble streamer
is that I have it installed on a
co-located server which has a 100
megabit fiber connection and that fiber
connection is basically our backbone
I don't have that here I only get well I
only get I'm actually really really
pleased about what we get here in our
new studio studio II I'm getting about
40 megabits per second upstream but
that's not enough to stream to a
thousand people simultaneously so what
we do is we send a single stream so
right now I am sending a single stream
out to the Internet to our co-located
box which has nimble streamer installed
on it it's just a debian machine it's
actually got debian stretch on it it's
due for an upgrade and with nimble
streamer what it does is it takes that
stream that we send it it's like an rtmp
stream and it converts it to the
different formats that are required and
it sends it to all of the different
endpoints so that's YouTube Facebook
Roku Kodi Plex HLS set-top boxes
over-the-top Vimeo and and everywhere
all from one feed so what is nimble
streamer it's like it's like the the
master kind of just like Redistributor
of our live feed and if you're trying to
do live video and you're trying to get
live video out there right now it's the
only way to do it
it's really really fantastic and you'll
want to follow the links below in order
to in the description below you'll find
a link to nimble streamer which will
take you there so things are a little
odd around here at category 5 as well
I'm not actually in the studio I'm in
the producers room as you might have
noticed so this is where I produce the
show never intended to be a broadcast
studio well why am I actually here for
episode number 648 well that comes down
to the fact that through this pandemic
it's been a challenge for me
it's been a challenge for all of us
hasn't it but it's been a challenge for
me to get to this point where we can
broadcast I am live so hi there
everybody this guy right here 64 marsh
man sad sack 963 hello and I did see Sol
boo and mini Marsh Bob Kaye 54 no man 5
so I'm here alive but the and so we're
broadcasting live through nimble
streamer and and from Wirecast so this
is Telestream Wirecast when I say
Telestream Wirecast that's what this is
but I can't have a contractor come to
our studio I can't have our builder come
here and run the necessary cabling and
the conduit in order to get the feed
from there the the next room over our
studio to where I am sitting right now
which is the producers room so this is
where everything is meant to come to so
everything comes in over here I mean
that's what it is meant to happen so
this corner here is kind of gonna be
where all the cabling comes in from our
main studio into our main broadcast rig
which is here you can't really see it
it's off-camera but it is right here
like this this stuff is sitting on top
of the server this is our server rack so
I have our main storage servers here our
data backup is here so this is the unit
that I can I can pull a drive and take
this drive home with me and this is a
Luke's encrypted 10 terabyte hard drive
and it's a mirror so it's constantly
being mirrored to multiple hard drives
then we've got our audio rack up here so
as you can see audio is happening right
now as I speak so I'm speaking on a
lapel tonight as opposed to the headsets
that we used to use and it comes into
our audio rig so here's the audio
receivers for my mic pack so it is
wireless and these are the antennas for
that which are able to get through the
wall just no prob
at all just like buttah and then we've
got an ultra miser Pro audio processor
which is a compressor so that makes sure
that I'm not too loud not too quiet
then we've got a sonic Maximizer from
BBE which is essentially that is an
audio exciter so we we add a little bit
of Christmas to the sound with this unit
here if I turn that off you're going to
notice the difference so watch this now
it is off and you can immediately hear
that it's just not as sweet and in the
industry we call that Christmas but it's
that's it's that little shimmer on the
on the microphone so when I turn that
back on now it's back on and now you can
hear the difference and then this guy
here from American audio is just simply
so that I can see that our mics are
working that's just a vu volume unit
indicator and and that kind of is
everything that goes on there but over
here which you can't see is our entire
audio rack so this is where the task cam
is so so everything is going through a
mixer over here I will show you in a
virtual tour in time as we kind of get
things set up but so all that to say
everything is very very makeshift and I
know you can't really see how makeshift
it is right now but wires are strewn
like do you see this this is one of the
wires that is critical to tonight's
broadcast so this is kind of how things
are going this is a wire that is
critical to tonight's broadcast these
are the the cables that are feeding back
my mic audio into the the rack that I
showed you here from the mixer which is
over here so everything is very
makeshift because we can't hire in the
helping hands that we need in order to
get everything done so I'm here doing
the best that I possibly can to do my
best to be ready to bring you a show and
we're not quite there I feel like we're
about three weeks out and I promised
that I would be on the air and
broadcasting by this time so April 22nd
was our was our date that we had Arbor
wearily set and achieved never knowing
that there was going to be this pandemic
never knowing that we were not going to
be able to just get the contractor and
get Jeff and Henry over here and and do
the news and do everything else that we
need to do we do have a treat for you
today
because there is one person who is
allowed to be within six feet of me and
that is my wonderful wife Rebecca and so
she is going to be joining us to provide
the news today we also have Robert
Koenig who is here with us vicariously
through the interwebs from Florida as
you know he brings us his show from from
the comfort of his home and that is the
crypto corner which is going to be
coming up in just a few minutes time as
well so we're looking forward to that
now there's a series that we're gonna be
starting here on category five
technology TV and that is to do with
advanced routing technology from micro
tech it's called router board I want to
show you this thing this is a a router
board this one is called the happe AC
router board RB 9 6 2 UI GS and it looks
just like a just like a standard router
right look at that but what is amazing
about these boards about these routers
about mikrotik as a brand is that they
are a disruptive technology you're
familiar with disruptive technologies
these are innovators who come out and
just completely flip the industry on
their heads what is amazing about micro
tech is that the features of the
firmware are not restricted and what I
mean by that is there are companies like
Cisco for example who you have to pay
licensing fees in order to get
kind of industrial businesslike features
and the high-end features you've got to
pay through the teeth sometimes for
licensing to be able to unlock those
software features now mikrotik has a
different approach they say you know
what even if you buy our forty dollar
router we're gonna give you the full
software there everything you're gonna
have access to everything so the only
limitation that you have with a micro
tech is the hardware lucky for us they
have a gajillion of these kind of
devices they've got a a wide range of
hardware available to us so with micro
tech the approach is instead to simply
find the hardware that's going to meet
your needs so the reason that I've
selected this one for the studio is
because we have one two three four
Gigabit Ethernet ports we've got a gig
port for connecting uplink to our modem
it's got two point four and five
gigahertz radios so I'm gonna be able to
kind of branch out and you know like our
wise cams for example are on the 2.4
gigahertz band so I'll leave those there
but I want to bring my smart phone and
our laptops and everything over to five
gigahertz because we're gonna get more
speed and then we're gonna presumably be
able to free up that that 2.4 gigahertz
band you're at the studio there are a
couple of different things that are
really really neat about this device I
mean they are really really hard core
good quality but they are about a tenth
of what you would expect to pay for
similar features and I really really
mean that I mean you'll notice on the
side there's a USB port one of the first
things that I ever did with a router
board is I used that USB port which by
software because it's not limited
remember so I wrote a script
that could turn on and off the power to
the USB port why would I want to do that
well USB is how many volts 5 volts I
picked up a 5 volt relay and I set it up
so that a USB cable went into that relay
and I could in the software turn off and
on the power to that relay basically
tripping the circuit so that relay then
had the power cable which was 12 volts
going to my modem my router board was
then the software was checking every 5
minutes
is Google responsive his Twitter
responsive is Facebook responsive and a
couple of other websites including my
own are they responding to pings if
they're not responding to pings
let's try again in five minutes and if
they're still not responding to pings
I'm going to cut the power on the USB
port and what that then did is it cut
the power on the relay which tripped the
12-volt signal to turn off my modem and
then it waited five seconds I programmed
that into this and then fired it back up
again the relay trip back
the modem powered back on and
essentially what I had done is I've
unplugged and plugged back in my modem
without ever having to be present or
even know about it
as soon as the internet seemed to go
down because this is a very common
problem at the time with my particular
modem I would have to power cycle that
modem basically like once every few
weeks but by using a micro tech I was
able to do that programmatically using
the USB port so all that to say it's
completely open in such a way that I can
utilize all of the features of the
router without being software restricted
even to the point of I can program the
USB port to power on and off my modem
come on now
they're so cheap they're like a tenth of
the price of a Cisco for example with
similar feature set we do have links for
you at cat5 dot TV slash mikrotik that's
mi k ro TI k they got a spell it weird
so that our links will be weird for you
because they don't have the software
limitations though I mean you can do so
very much with it so over the course of
the coming weeks what we're gonna be
doing is we're gonna be setting this up
this is this is the one that I selected
for the studio I'm gonna be setting this
up as a basic router so just basically
what you would need for home it's going
to protect you better than what your ISP
is providing for you significantly
better it's going to be a lot more
robust it's gonna give you a lot more
control but beyond that over the coming
weeks we're gonna learn how to use this
to create things like a guest Wi-Fi that
I control so well but Robbie my my Wi-Fi
access point that the Internet service
provider gave me also comes with guest
Wi-Fi
well yes but do you have control over
that no what I want to do is not only
take that guest Wi-Fi and lock it down
so that the the people who are connected
to my guest Wi-Fi cannot access my
server my internal resources my printer
I want to lock that down but also I want
to restrict how fast they can travel
through my internet connection in other
words I want to throttle their bandwidth
they're a guest they're just using my
internet as probably to be honest it's
going to be one of the kids friends with
their Nintendo switch playing some video
games but when they come around with
their tablet and try to download videos
I don't want them to be milking my
bandwidth and slowing things down on my
network and Cha causing my voice to to
start buffering so I'm going to be able
to do that we're going to be teaching
you how to do that here on category five
technology TV in the coming weeks so
consider this as a little bit of a
preliminary in
reduction to this series from there
we're gonna be learning also how to lock
it down so that we're blocking ads
through piehole directly on this device
and then we're gonna take it one step
further and we're also going to create
probably what I would say is one of the
best pornography ever have on your home
network on one of these and that is
going to be able to protect your
children and maybe if you're working in
a school and the education sector it's a
perfect opportunity for you on the cheap
to be able to create something that is
going to just absolutely protect your
users and and then it's also good in
business and it allows you to be able to
kind of control what your staff are
accessing and and just making sure that
it's not something that you would object
to or that you don't want your bandwidth
being used for at your office let's say
you can use the web interface I mean
this has a built in web interface but
what's really really cool about the
mikrotik I'm gonna say that a lot or and
hey it's gonna be my crotch what's
really really cool about it well there's
too many things that are cool I I need
to have a bullet list one of the things
that I really adore about this is that
there's also a piece of software called
win box which is available for Windows
or Mac however it runs flawlessly on
Linux in wine so it basically will run
on all platforms you're going to use the
Windows version on Linux and it runs
perfectly well why would you want to use
software when it has a web interface the
reason for that is because if you ever
basically screw up and brick your device
make it so that it's inaccessible
through the web interface you can use
wind box in order to access it you can
recover it and it's just a simple tool
that detects your router on the network
and and lets see you access it and
configure it and it's it's fairly robust
as well so we're gonna go through this
over the course of the next few weeks
and I encourage you to follow the links
at camp five dot TV slash mikrotik if
you're looking for a good solid home
router business router that's going to
be able to give you some of those
features that
well beyond what you would expect for
the price point just find one that has
the features the hardware features that
you need because again the software is
not restricted so if you need five
gigahertz Wi-Fi you need to make sure
that you buy one that has 5 gigahertz
Wi-Fi the software's not going to limit
you that it's whether the radio
internally has support for it they start
like really really cheap you can get one
for like 29 bucks or something and then
they work their way up to a couple
hundred bucks and then you can even get
into rack mount servers units that are
going to be several hundred dollars and
they've got the SPF and and everything
else this one also has you've got a
you've got everything on here that
you'll ever need HAP is the one that I
got half is home access point I believe
so check those out cat 5 TV slash micro
tech and I will be demonstrating this
over the course of the the next several
weeks I wish I could show you the
internal today unfortunately because of
limitations to our studio right now I'm
not able to bring it up on the screen
I'm not able to show you or teach you
how it works
I really wanted to be there this week
folks it's coming and I can't wait I'm
going to be teaching you a lot of stuff
about these devices there I've got to
take a really quick break hey when we
return we've got some great news coming
out of the category 5 dot TV news we're
gonna stick around
[Music]
welcome back everybody this is category
five technology TV looking at our
discord which you can access if you go
to our website category five dot TV and
you'll click on interact and the first
option is to join our discord server
well what does that give you it gives
you access to all these channels I mean
we've got pictures behind the scenes
we've got all kinds of stuff like video
editing and what the there's the mixer
if you want to see what the mixer looks
like it's all there we've got behind the
scenes pictures we've got pictures of
Jeff Weston and Robbie Ferguson and
Becca Ferguson all together at life 103
about 20 years ago and everything else I
mean it's a great way to communicate
with the with the community as well
Marsh man saying this episode is like a
higher quality version of the first
seasons of category 5 that's exactly
right
except there's more people here and yes
definitely higher quality boy sweating
or sois SG one of these days you're
gonna tell us how to how to say that
says that they have a mikrotik router
with 10 Gigabit Ethernet very good stuff
yes all right and we're gonna be
learning all kinds of neat things with
that and some people mentioning things
like open wrt and maybe tomato or dd-wrt
for example now I have routers that I
have dd-wrt on and mikrotik is
mind-bendingly better I will promise you
that if you've never used it you'll just
be floored at the at the quality and the
and the capabilities and don't listen to
me don't don't just be like oh Robby
said they're good so I'm gonna go buy
one No
hold off save your dolla dolla bills and
in the coming weeks I'm going to be
showing you how it works I'm gonna be
setting it up and you're gonna be like
oh my goodness
and it's gonna be incredible and you're
gonna be you're gonna be all up on that
I am very shiny thanks Marsh man looking
at the alright a question from minguk 75
on the router how does that router stack
up to one that is AC 1900 so quick
Google search AC 1900 what is so good
about an AC 1900 okay so immediately in
a soos router is something that is going
to have a lock down firmware there is no
way that in the soos router is gonna
have that unlocked and correct me if I'm
wrong please do and comment below I'm
not familiar with these devices but I
know that consumer gear usually comes
with a very lockdown firmware and that's
why projects like dd-wrt and tomato
exist because it allows you to unlock
devices like that your consumer gear
what this is is this professional gear
it's progear it's like it's more like
you can't compare it I mean form factor
wise you can compare it to something
like a consumer router product and
feature wise you've got to compare it to
something like Cisco and I'm talking
something that's 10 times the price
alright so when we look at this over the
course of the little the next little
while you're gonna be you're gonna see
why it is the better solution skywriter
64 has a very valid question listen up
how secure is it how secure is a
mikrotik router board router well let's
just say because it's open software
without getting into all the details
right now and I don't mean open source
or anything like that I mean open as in
the features are unlocked because you
have no locking on the software
capabilities of this you can do all
kinds of stuff how secure is it well you
can lock it down absolutely
percent you can lock it down so that
only certain IPS are certain MAC
addresses are able to access it's
probably the most secure router OS
firmware that I've ever seen and because
it's so incredibly customizable and
you're gonna see that over the the
course of the series because it's so
customizable you're gonna be able to
create the level of security that works
for you I'm going to be securing it from
two sides so first side is the one that
we always think about skywriter 64 we
always think about how secure is our
router for hackers getting in that's one
thing very secure against that right out
of the box but we can even firm it up
even further because the firewall does
not allow anything through unless you
say it say it's allowed so basically
nothing gets through this unless you say
it can get through then I take another
approach and I say because I mentioned
about how I'm going to be using I'm
going to be creating a guest Wi-Fi with
that guest Wi-Fi I'm taking the opposite
approach where I'm protecting my
internal infrastructure and protecting
my internet connectivity from someone
using that Wi-Fi maliciously that means
they're not going to be able to access
pornography they're not going to be able
to access sites that I don't approve of
and they're not going to be able to
access my files they're not going to be
able to access my printers my network
resources anything at all they're gonna
have their very own virtual wireless LAN
and I'm gonna have full control over the
security of that it's gonna be
incredible thinking of the Wi-Fi
capabilities of a router board they have
very good Wi-Fi built in and that's one
of the reasons I wanted one for the
studio is not just for the
configurability of it but because it has
really good range I'm gonna be able to
get 2.4 gigahertz 5 gigahertz a lot
further than the modem that came with
that came with my ISP it's gonna be a
lot better so if you have questions for
me in the chat in discord or IRC hey
please post them say hello I will do my
best to read them on air so keep it safe
for work in the meantime we do have to
head over to the newsroom so Becca
Ferguson is over there let's head on
over here's what's coming up in a
category 5 TV newsroom the videogame
cloud streaming industry is getting
shaken up as NVIDIA loses more big names
and Microsoft readies its market killer
Netflix has released its first quarter
fiscal year results for 2020 and
revealed some unusual coronavirus
impacts Microsoft answers once and for
all should there be one or two spaces
after a period Apple is preparing to
develop its own processors for Mac
computers to be rolled out as early as
next year drones will be used to carry
medical supplies to the Isle of Wight
and the Pentagon says the video of UFOs
that were leaked in 2017 are real stick
around the full details and this week's
crypto corner are coming up this is the
category 5 TV newsroom covering a week's
top tech stories with a slight linux
bias
from the newsroom climb back to Ferguson
the success of a video game cloud
streaming service is all based on
content where you can and can't get your
favorite games the industry is getting a
shakedown as Nvidia's GeForce game
streaming service has lost four game big
name game publishers with Xbox game
studios Warner Bros Codemasters and clay
Entertainment pulling their titles by
the end of the week this comes as
Microsoft prepares to launch his own
game streaming service project X cloud
and high ending streaming's company
blade launches a lower priced version of
its shadow streaming service with
competitors PlayStation now in Google
stadia also chasing streaming customers
and Apple pushing its walled garden game
system the market is entering a new era
of competition similar to the movie and
TV streaming market a few years ago the
loss of Xbox and Warner Bros is
significant yet buried in an
announcement that Nvidia had signed up
to be soft whose titles include
Assassin's Creed far cry and the Tom
Clancy series for g-force it painted the
changes is an opportunity to refine our
library and stress that 30 of the top 40
most played games on Steam already
stream on GeForce now gamers pay Nvidia
five dollars a month for now to run
games they have already bought at a far
higher performance level and speed than
their devices can manage and video runs
its own copies of the games on its
high-end servers takes input from
people's controllers processes it and
then streams video back to the user
while they may seem like overkill it
means ordinary gamers can compete with
those on high-end gaming machines which
cost thousands of dollars with even a
microsomia difference between winning
and losing it is something many are
prepared to pay for but as with TV and
movie streaming services content is
everything and so there is a tussle
going on between game developers and
operators of streaming services Google
launched its stadia service with plenty
of fanfare a year ago but has so far
disappointed gamers because of its
limited selection of games and
compatibility issues it does offer the
best resolution at 4k and charges $10 a
month though we as we
learn lastly you can sign up for a pro
account right now to receive it for free
for two months PlayStation now requires
you to have a PlayStation and works only
with games that run on the platform
although they are pretty extensive and
also cost ten dollars a month
shadow offers a higher end service that
costs $25 a month and from next month
will offer a lower cost but lower
powered $12 a month option as for
Microsoft's upcoming project X cloud
service due to launch anytime soon it
won't require users to own an Xbox and
pricing has yet to be announced
having released its first quarter fiscal
year results for 2020 Netflix Netflix
has revealed some unusual coronavirus
impacts made most plain in its Form 10-q
Netflix said the Cova 19 pandemic has
also led to an increase in our net paid
membership additions relative to our
quarterly forecast and historic trends
indeed the company reported fifteen
point five million new subscribers in
the quarter for a total of a hundred and
eighty-two point 86 million almost
double recent quarters of subscription
growth but the filling mourns the surge
may not be indicative of results for
future periods CEO Reed Hastings letter
to shareholders opens with in our
20-plus year history we have never seen
a future more uncertain or unsettling
and goes on to explain that onboarding a
rush of new users has actually damaged
Netflix average revenue per user the CEO
also explained that the pandemic will
impact the streamers pipeline of new
shows because most film crews worldwide
have had to stop working although
animators were quickly back at work and
writers mostly just kept writing revenue
for the quarter was us five point seven
seven billion dollars in operating
income hit nine hundred and fifty eight
million both the best results the
company has achieved in recent history
and that's after taking into account the
strength of the US dollar which reduces
the value of subscriptions in other
nations Hastings also wrote that Netflix
investment in cash eases systems appears
to have paid off both in terms of user
experience and letting it respond to the
government requests to reduce his impact
on networks
company has also blogged about its
introduction of support for TLS 1.3
which means it can do a full handshake
with a device with one round-trip or
sometimes without a roundtrip at all
that translates into faster stars for
streams and less traffic on networks
subscribers ought not to expect more new
features at this time hastiness letter
added that while Netflix Netflix devs
are now working from home and that
transition has gone well they have
temporarily reduced the number of
product innovations while continuing
continuing to release features they
believe will add meaningful value for
members such as improved parental
controls with the advent of word
processors we saw a great debate take
shape should you enter a single space or
a double space after a period the double
space was a holdover from the days of
the typewriter and even now some people
still do it if you're one of them you
might want to prepare yourself for a
certain update that's on the way to
Microsoft Word Microsoft has decided to
drop the mic siding with those who
prefer a single space as test builds of
Microsoft Word now treat a double space
after a period as a typo when you allow
the word processor to correct the error
it'll change it to a single space
automatically according to the verge
while this feature is only in testing
for now it won't be long before it rolls
out to the entire word using audience on
desktop the good news however is that
you won't be stuck forever looking at
those error lines underneath your double
spaces if you don't want to in a
statement to the verge Microsoft's
partner director of program management
Kirk Gregerson said that the double
spaces of the world of sorry the double
spaces of the world the double spaces of
the world will be able to ignore the
error flag and continue overusing their
space bar if they so choose
Gregerson said as the crux of the great
spacing debate we know this is a
stylistic choice that may not be a
preference for all writers which is why
we continue to test with users and
enable these suggestions to be easily
accepted ignored or flat-out dismissed
we wanted to know how the free
alternative Libre Office was leaning in
a libre office community forum user
shankha plaza calls to spaces needless
extra
Terk saying if you had to take two
breaths for everyone it'd be a tad
laboring no and designer and typographer
Hanks Amir Hoff says in any part of the
European mainland mainland it was never
done or abandoned over fifty years ago
double spaces will come back to bite you
in some form as it turns out libre
office already defaults to to change
double spaces into single spaces and has
for the past several versions at least
though as P area of sim Sam Yin points
out it can be changed in the tools
autocorrect autocorrect options menu on
the options tab by checking on ignore
double spaces so there you have it
Microsoft isn't quite pushing out the
double spaces yet but they're following
Libre offices lead and it feels like a
big win for the single spacers expect to
see this feature land in Microsoft Word
in the months ahead we've got to take a
quick break the crypto corner and more
of this week's top tech news stories are
coming up so don't go anywhere
come back to the cryptic owner hope you
all well and staying safe and also hope
that last week's corner was of used to
you where we spoke about jobs and the
big opportunities in the blockchain
industry in regards to programming and
coding I forgot to mention one website
which I used to learn Python which is
called hacker rank com that's H ACK er
RA a and K dot-com which gives you every
day little task to achieve and that's
how I learnt quite nicely to learn in in
Python and it's free so give it a try
another thing that I'd like to mention
is it's currently tax season and I
encourage you to take care of those
taxes because local authorities around
the world are starting to work together
with local exchanges and so they will
have most likely your details already in
regards how many cryptos you have and so
on there are plenty of websites that you
can use and most and they're very very
good in price also so there it's fairly
cheap to use them and they are clever in
the sense that they also give you advice
when to add I want to change the
position cryptocurrencies in regards to
save taxes so make use of those websites
they will be of use to you later on to
the news market cap of our industry has
not really changed substantially since
last week we're hovering around 225
billion US dollars with Bitcoin and
having a market share of 64 percent big
dates that are coming up soon in shellye
which is from Cardno a new development
which focus on decentralization has been
started this week so they mined the
first Genesis block this week but you
see it's not yet open for the public and
for that they're saying it will be open
for the pub
in May or June but that's an important
development for Caetano for you theorem
they're saying that the theorem 2.0 will
come in July remains to be seen because
they have changed today it's already
many times but that's what they're
currently saying and then the big one is
Bitcoin havening which is coming in
around two weeks now a lot of people are
saying that it will have a big impact on
prices others are saying that it would
have no impact on prices the history is
telling on I said it will not have a big
impact on prices immediately that comes
at a later stage but to explain what
happened happening means is currently
every 10 minutes around every 10 minutes
Bitcoin issues twelve and a half Bitcoin
the Bitcoin blockchain dish is 12 and
1/2 Bitcoin to the miners and that will
be half so from a male or two weeks
onwards for the next four years - will
receive only six point two five Bitcoin
every ten minutes so the inflation of
the Bitcoin blockchain will be reduced
by by half and that's why it's called
hardening avenues it's in regards to
defy Saudi centre line for decentralized
finance which is to explain centralized
finance is C Phi which is banks where
you have got a middle person where
you've got a company that you can call
to to talk to somebody D Phi is just
based on mathematics and codes then
that's getting very popular it's really
interesting so if you have got some time
go into D Phi of any cryptocurrency the
development has been tremendous it's
still in test phase so don't invest any
money there or any substantial money but
it's interesting and BitFenix which is
the owner or the sister company off of
tether which is a stable coin they
developed a token which is called the P
token which makes it possible to
exchange funds between our assets
between two to this decentralized
or exchanges that is coming which is an
interesting development and coinbase
launch source and Oracle why is what was
in Oracle is tool that tells you a
specific value at a specific time for
example the price of Bitcoin as you know
there are probably over four hundred
five hundred exchanges that are trading
in in Bitcoin and they all have a
different price I mean it's a minimal
difference but what happens if there's a
crash then the difference between those
exchanges will be substantial and that
is of importance for for example these
defy platforms which price should they
use if they have to liquidate a position
and for that they're differently
developing Oracle's and coinbase just
launched a price Oracle and that will be
life or it's already life and next is
the auto the foundation took a decision
to change smart contracts idea they
initially had that and the base layer
and they chew moving that now to layer
to layer to fund a solution so it's like
the Lightning Network to Bitcoin it's
not part of the base cryptocurrency it's
a level higher so that is a decision
that they took let's see if that comes
because it's not the first time that
they changed that and yeah that's that's
it for me so I wish you a great week
we'll see I hope to see you next week
and with this back to the studio
Thank You Robert just a reminder that
we're not providing financial advice but
only sharing what's happening in the
cryptocurrency market always remember
that the crypto currency markets are
ever-changing and always volatile so you
should only spend what you can afford to
lose now back to Becca
in the newsroom Thank You Ravi until now
Apple has been using
Intel processors but according to a
Bloomberg report the company is now
preparing to develop its own processors
for Mac computers which could be ruled
out as early as next year Apple is said
to be working on three different
processors that are based on a fourteen
chip that will power the next iPhone
according to the report the first of
these new Apple made chips is expected
to be much faster than that of an
iPhones and will arrive in a new
computer next year in taking this step
Apple is likely to be slowly moving
towards ditching its dependence on Intel
chips altogether Apple's partner for
iPhone and iPad processors Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co will
develop the new Mac chips the components
will be based on the five nanometer
production technique the same size
Apple's used in the next iPhones and
iPad pros details are thin at the moment
but will be a wheel sure be able to let
you know more as the specifications are
announced the UK government has
announced that drones will be used to
carry medical supplies from Hampshire to
the Isle of Wight a planned trial of the
technology began this week in March the
government announced funding for drone
tests and a new air traffic control
system but Grant Shapps Secretary of
State for Transport said there was an
urgent need for the trial to begin
sooner than planned
ferry crossings to the Isle of Wight are
currently reduced due to the spread of
Cova 19 an unmanned aerial vehicle can
make the crossing to the Isle of Wight
in about 10 minutes the government
expects about four flights per day to be
made depending on the needs of the
United Kingdom National Health Service a
spokeswoman told the BBC that the first
flights would carry personal protective
equipment however in future the drone
could deliver the time critical supplies
such as blood and organs the trial will
use a gasoline-fueled wind racers ultra
fixed-wing drone capable of carrying a
hundred kilogram payload for up to a
thousand kilometres the Department for
Transport said the drone would fly
autonomously along a fixed route between
Lyon the Solent in Hampshire and
Binstead on the Isle of Wight to safety
pilots one at each airfield will oversee
each flight a spokeswoman told the BBC
that the flight would take around 10
minutes significantly
reducing to river delivery times between
the Isle of Wight and mainland after
goods have been dropped off at the
airfield they will be delivered to st.
Mary's Hospital on the Isle of Wight by
Road because this is all happening so
happening so quickly an unmanned traffic
management system cannot be put in place
in time though it will be pursued for
the long term so for now rather than
integrating the drone with regular air
traffic a temporary danger area is being
set up for 90 days to separate the drone
from other aircraft the Pentagon says
that can explain three previously leaked
videos of supposed UFOs and the
explanation is simple they are real and
they're still a total mystery
the US government Declassified three
top-secret videos of unexplained aerial
phenomena on Monday confirming that
clips that first surfaced in 2017 are
legitimate that's not to say that the
UFOs are not of this world but that the
Pentagon is unable to identify the
objects seen flying in the videos word
Wizards are making the connection
unidentified flying objects UFOs the US
Navy has officially released the footage
entik on spokesperson sue GAO's said on
Monday but this is to clear up any
misconceptions by the public on whether
or not the footage that has been
circulating was real or whether or not
there is more to the videos she said
after a thorough review the department
has determined that the authorized
release of these unclassified videos
does not reveal any sensitive
capabilities or systems and does not
impinge on any subsequent investigations
of military airspace incursions by
unidentified aerial phenomena in other
words the objects are not theirs the
announcements the announcement is more
vindication for Tom DeLonge the
blink-182 band member and alien
enthusiasts who release the videos to
the New York Times in 2017 through his
UFO research organization to the Stars
Academy of Arts and Science while the US
Navy didn't acknowledge the videos when
they first serviced in 2020 2017
Joe Grande is sure spokesperson for the
Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for
information warfare confirmed they are
real in an interview with CNN last
September saying the Navy designates the
objects contained in these videos as
I unidentified aerial phenomenon you ApS
grad grad assure said at the time that
transparency around the sightings was
important so that pilots won't feel
ashamed to report something that could
be dangerous for many years our aviators
didn't report these incursions because
of the stigma attached to previous
technology and theories about what may
or may not be in those videos all three
videos are now available through the
Pentagon's Reading Room the Pentagon did
not release any additional footage or
content along with the three clips but
it has stoked a flurry of excitement
among UFO enthusiasts with its simple
acknowledgement that the videos are
legitimate the truth is out there
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at patreon.com slash
category-five on the category-five TV
newsroom i'm becca ferguson thanks Becca
and thank you everyone for joining us
this week it's been great having you
here now I know that the technology is
not perfect yet here at our news new
studio part of that I mean a large part
of that comes from the fact that nobody
saw our current world kind of like how
things are in our world we never saw
that coming
and and it's hard to set everything up
and get everything working the way it
should when I can't have folks here
helping me and so I appreciate your
understanding in that I appreciate our
staff I I so greatly just want to send a
big thanks to Jeff Weston Henry Bailey
Brown Sacha Rickman who all three
couldn't be here today because of the
technology not being there and big
thanks to Robert Koenig who was able to
be here by the the technology that he's
able to use and to my wife Becca
Ferguson for being here physically and
being
able to fortunately she's able to be
here physically because we are not
having to be isolated from one another
as husband and wife so that is a
wonderful wonderful blessing for me and
for the show to be able to have a news
anchor who is going to be able to help
us carry the show over the next little
while as we just don't know when this
whole thing is going to let up and when
things are gonna change so thank you to
the team thank you to everybody who has
helped put this together this week in
the meantime I I do believe that every
single week we're gonna get better and
better and stronger and stronger so
please be here thank you for your
support please go to our website
category five dot TV not only to support
us but also to get free content for
yourself a couple of the quick mentions
that I'll just say that have changed
this week is that we've now introduced
1440p downloadable video so everything
from episode number 647 onward you're
gonna be able to download in full ultra
HD video format so not just 1080p not
just HD but Ultra HD 2k video you're
gonna be able to download those directly
and it's absolutely free that's category
5 dot TV there's also some great
products that we mentioned on the show
that you're gonna be able to follow some
of our affiliate links that help support
the show but also give you a great deal
as well and help you to support those
who support category 5 dot TV and and
that's important as well as we think
about you know this current situation in
our world small companies that that we
love and support and who support us that
you can be supporting as well just by
reallocating where you buy from just
saying hey instead of buying my
raspberry pie on Amazon I'm gonna buy it
from a marriage Royd even if I pay a
couple bucks more it's gonna support the
small business and the companies that we
love and we want to see through this
pandemic so so consider those things and
go to our website category five dot TV
and we thank you for for being a part of
the show and a part of this
envy and I look forward to seeing you
again next week it's going to be
smashing it's gonna be perfect
everything's gonna go flawlessly I'm
gonna be able to bring things up on the
screen for you and everything else
that's my dream it's gonna be great
folks and and we are gonna get better
and better as the week's go on so thank
you for being here through this time
it's odd for all of us but we're we're
here and broadcasting and communing with
our community as well and I appreciate
each and every one of you so thank you
for you take care everybody I will see
you again next week see ya
