welcome to category five technology TV
we've got a great show planned for you
now Sashi you've been using clout ready
notebook for some time now now this is
it's a computer laptop like it used to
have windows on it but you installed yes
never wear and it's and it's perfect
it's been great it turns it into a
Chromebook yeah which is amazing like
repurpose old hardware but the problem
that you run into is what happens when
you have the cloud as your laptop but
then you lose access to the Internet or
otherwise don't have access to it how do
you edit your files good question so
this week I'm going to show you how we
can in fact turn that into something
that has offline access to all of your
files will say files all your Docs all
of your spreadsheets and all of your
presentations also we've got some new
tablets ePaper wise from from new yes
and we're gonna be showing you what's
different about their new ePaper so
stick around this
category-five technology TV our live
recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash iai beat
welcome to the show everybody oh no I
don't know what's happening over here I
wanted to say kudos to tighten and
tighten PI because this has been running
our Titan chat server for the past many
weeks with no fail it's been running
fantastically and so what you see over
here all this is done on a Raspberry Pi
using Titan PI and luckily the chat our
chat room would never post anything
embarrassing never ever never ever I was
about to promote Titan pi but that is
there there's the I guess the the faces
of Titan oh this is bad timer there you
go hey everybody it's nice to see you
it's nice to have you here for episode
number 610 of category 5 technology TV I
do appreciate the custom artwork as
opposed to the face swap of Sasha and I
yeah although I do like having hair
that's kind of nice very short I'm very
smart
but I've got hair so it's a toss-up I am
willing to take I don't know if I'm
willing to sacrifice my hair for a
little height dear oh dear this is gonna
be quite the show if the chat room is
gonna be like this for us you guys are
feisty tonight yeah it's nice to see
everybody and well Before we jump into
it I want to remind you to visit our
YouTube channel and make
true you click on subscribe and also
that Bell to be able to receive the
notifications like nomen five who said
that
well the Bell was what alerted them to
the fact that we were live tonight
perfect
absolutely I tell you it works you click
the bell you get the notification
exactly not only not only when we're
live but also any time we post new
videos so all those fun exciting
behind-the-scenes that we post you're
only going to get those if you click the
Bell mm-hmm yeah CBS has started teasing
I get I won't say X like sharing with us
the details but definitely teasing the
new Star Trek Picard series what a
stupid name
Star Trek Picard they could have done
something with that it's my opinion I
feel like they're obviously my we have a
character his name is Picard water if
we're gonna call this show what are we
gonna call this show oh I have an idea
it's like when we call the new the
newsroom the Sasha show I mean just
that's tongue-in-cheek but this is real
life this is CBS calling a show Star
Trek Picard so they were like twelve
people around the table and they were
all very serious and they were drinking
their coffees and they were like you
know showing up early and everything and
there was probably a Flipboard or some
sort of device and they were going
through some options and they settled on
Picard Star Trek but wait a minute isn't
he the lead character yeah yeah oh yeah
I guess I guess that makes sense then I
guess we could call it but it starts in
the past like there's a show that I I
think is great this hour has 22 minutes
yeah that's a ridiculous name for a show
it's true though it's that's fun so this
is obviously only going to be about
Picard nobody else will be in it well in
fact we have heard
or that some of the Star Trek The Next
Generation alumni are going to be at
least making cameo performances so one
of the ones that I'm excited about is
brent Spiner reprising his role as data
which is surprising because the problem
that they ran into with data the Android
is that brent Spiner the actor ages like
the rest of us but how can an Android
Age androids don't age are they going to
use that technology that they use it's
kind of like a deep fake yeah but that
they'll just be ages exactly I mean I'm
sure that there'll be some sort of
filter or video enhancement or
incredible makeup jobs or something I've
seen this done where they've D aged
using technology using CGI right the
actor why wouldn't you sign up for that
yeah but then we need Star Trek data
wait well Wesley Crusher be in it I
liked him not that I've heard I don't
think Wesley Crusher is welcome in any
of the kind of burn some bridges sack I
did like him yeah you know he was a good
good character yeah yeah but so okay so
name aside we do know that it's
happening we do know that it is starring
Sir Patrick Stewart and so that is
exciting right
do we know where we'll watch it well I'm
thinking we're probably gonna have to
set up a big screen TV here maybe like a
maybe a pulldown screen with a projector
something 16k or something like that
perfect yeah definitely but that aside
we don't really know a lot about the
show mm-hmm if you haven't seen the
trailer get on YouTube do a search for
Star Trek Picard and just be like okay
well I still don't know anything except
we do learn in the trailer that Captain
Picard has left Star
fleet Oh so the question becomes what
could possibly cause jean-luc Picard to
leave Star Trek that Starfleet okay so
he's left Starfleet but he still has the
enterprise like he still no so we work
in the vineyard he's working the Family
Vineyard
on earth I don't even know what's
happening of Lee nobody does we don't
really know what's going on so we've
also learned that Alison Pill is going
to be playing a character within the
cast that's all we really know and if
you remember she actually played the
daughter of Steven Carell in Dan was it
called Dan the in the real-life dan in
real life dan in real life yes Harry
Treadway is from the crown he's also
going to be cast without a lead card
series as well there is a good chance
that we're gonna have to wait for at
least a few months before we know more
kind of why does it do information about
it all we know is that sometime this
year so later this year where are we
that's what we know okay we're not even
halfway yet yeah so it'll probably be
fall winter season of 29 November yeah
and it's only gonna be 10 10 episodes as
far as I understand it but there is
there is some good news that's what it
is going to be accessible to us fans you
don't necessarily impart me have to
subscribe to all kinds of CBS services
in order to gain access to Star Trek
Picard if you have Amazon Prime it's
going to be on there yeah here in Canada
it's going to be available through Bell
media it's going to be on a few
different channels but of course having
Amazon Prime is going to be a big plus
for American viewers of course CBS all
access is going to have it as well all
these details are going to be coming to
light over the next probably couple of
months we're gonna start to learn about
what's going on with Star Trek Picard
comment below what you think a better
name would be for
or this show it didn't take long and I
was laughing and I was showing you no
memes to my wife things that have been
posted on Twitter and of course the best
the absolute best was Star Trek Picardo
Robert Picardo the holographic doctor
from Star Trek Voyager
that was absolutely genius but they were
taking it every level third track The
Captain's Log never see bathrooms and
stars they never did that we've got to
get into the show this week we are gonna
be looking at what it takes to gain
access to our Google Drive files if you
will our Google Docs our Google sheets
our Google what are they called
presentations PowerPoint write impress
I'm thinking about all these different
words that are not related to Google
what do they call it slides they call it
slides Google slides it's why don't we
just pick one and stick with it
my life is Google slides oh let's call
it Google PowerPoint from here odds ya
know it's Google slides and then I go to
school and I'm like y'all got slides let
me when I hear slides I think about like
a like a microscope you're wrong it's
the best ever
okay slides that is my they're like my
homeboy but you're you're on a what
we'll call a pseudo Chromebook right
this is a cloud ready yes home brew
custom made Chromebook yeah that you
built
I built it well yeah I took it what was
I'm looking at the stickers here a
Windows 7 computer yes and turned it
into a Chromebook using cloud ready
exactly from Neverwhere and it's perfect
but it's not perfect is it you had to
learn I had to learn a little bit of the
ins and outs about different LS yeah you
can't install Photoshop
right right but here's where it's not
necessarily perfect Sasha what happens
if you don't have internet with a cloud
book iPad with a cloud ready Chromebook
well then I panic you don't have access
to your stuff right so what happens I
think I think that Chromebooks have
really got it going on when it comes to
the ability to take your content from
computer to computer and access it right
so if I was on your Chromebook
and I logged in as me it's going to
connect out to the Google cloud servers
and I have access to all of my documents
all of my sheets all of my slides
aka PowerPoint aka impress right yes and
then I come over to my Chromebook and I
log in as myself and I have access to
those exact same things without having
to transfer anything on a USB flash
drive or through a network it's all in
the cloud brilliant yeah fantastic for
people going to and from school and
things like that but what happens if you
don't have internet you have 0 not okay
zero access to your files right if you
can call them files they're not really
files here's here's the like slightly
princessy thing about me is I've never
not had internet like I don't even know
like I would panic
what if you're gonna go visit the
cottage I guess let's just put that out
as a and I can use that as a example
because when I go to the cottage there's
probably not internet right we're in the
middle of the woods so what if you go to
the proverbial cottage where is your
cottage
it could be just anywhere where you
don't have internet access which is a
brilliant place to be I think that's a
great place to be hmm well lo and behold
today we're gonna learn how to set it up
so that even if you don't have internet
access
you can still access all your documents
okay all your PowerPoint slides all your
Excel sheets I have to drop these names
in because if you say well what are
sheets it's it's like the online version
of Excel it's so what do you say weird
spreadsheets yeah weird documents but
Docs Google Docs is pretty
self-explanatory when they get into
sheets and slides it's like what are
slides right yeah Google presentation or
whatever that one is I don't even I I've
never even dabbled in it okay yeah let's
so let's actually jump on to my computer
and we want to learn what it takes in
order to get my computer to be able to
communicate with my Drive account
without internet connectivity okay and I
think you'll be surprised how easy this
is so this takes the Chromebook takes
the the cloud ready notebook into a
whole new realm but also now here I'm
using Linux Mint but as long as you have
Google Chrome right and a Google Drive
account which let's face it everybody
these days has a Google Drive account
especially if you're using google for
your email let's jump over to my
computer here and I'm gonna go to Drive
drive.google.com I've gotten so used to
typing on a organ amah keyboard because
of my owner nerve entrapment that typing
on a laptop feels really really weird
tonight so here I am in my drive so I've
got access to for example the show notes
from tonight's show so here's how we do
things around here so we type it out
into Google Docs well I want to be able
to access that if I'm sitting at my
cottage if I'm sitting anywhere have
access to it so what I want to do is I
want to click on this gear icon here
while I'm in Drive and click on settings
and in settings look at this we've got
offline create open and edit your recent
Google Docs sheets and slides files from
this device while offline the Google
Docs offline extension will be added to
Chrome so I'm gonna click on that and
it's gonna tell me that I need this
extension we need to install Google Docs
offline in my Chrome browser so do keep
in mind I have to be using Chrome here I
can't be using Firefox I can't be using
edge yeah okay so install this in Chrome
all right so we're gonna get into the
extension here and it's gonna show me
okay there it is
Google Docs offline add to Chrome do you
want to add this extension yeah add that
extension there we go that was quick
could it be that simple well let's see
let's jump back to my drive I'm gonna
close out of extensions here and here
now I'm gonna click on offline again
click that check box now that I've got
the extension installed and you see down
at the bottom left there it says setting
up offline so there's nothing else that
I'm needing to do I can just I can click
on done I can bring back up my document
I can see what's going on here and it's
it's doing its thing in the background
it's kind of sinking the most recently
edited files to my laptop so it's
important along that vein see how it's
setting up offline still so if you look
at the storage on my left hand side here
what I notice is that I'm using 58.5
gigabytes of my 230 gigabyte quota so
worst case scenario if this was to sync
my entire Drive it's going to require 58
gigs of my hard drive so I need to
probably make sure that I have somewhere
close to as much drive space left on my
laptop as I do you know for the
synchronization to take place but it's
not going to take up that full amount of
space necessarily it's gonna be the most
recent files or right you can in fact
open a file looking at today's episode
again I can actually click file once
it's loaded here file and I can specify
make available offline do you see that
so this particular file if I click on
that it will ensure that this file is
available offline so regardless of
whether I added it today or tomorrow or
if it's going to get bumped off the list
if I have it specified that it is
available offline it will always be
available offline for me which is pretty
handy if you've got a file that you
refer to requite frequently but you
don't necessarily edit quite frequently
excellent this is very very helpful for
your Chromebook yes I do have a question
that perhaps might be outside of your
ability to answer I like those
okay if I have a shared document I
understand that obviously if I'm working
offline any of the edits I make
obviously aren't going to show up in the
shared person's documents but if they're
making changes and I'm making changes
who's changing stream obviously yours
Thanks right I would hope so but I great
answer gentlemen that's so that's an
interesting question that would be a
good like a deathmatch Google Drive
shared file sentence and you changed the
same sentence and then we'll both get
back online and see presumably though as
soon as I get online it's gonna
synchronize and it's gonna try to
reconcile those differences but yeah
that's an interesting question that
you're right I don't necessarily know
the answer off the top my head but
that's something we could try right we
could definitely try that for today's
demonstration I'm thinking of this from
the perspective Sascha of these are your
files you're editing them these are my
files I'm editing them I just want to
have access to them so for example if
I'm writing a novel or a short story or
a technical documentation and I go away
to the cottage and I have no internet I
can keep working on it or you know I
don't have to be concerned about the
need for internet to be able to work on
my documents I can do that but plus
because it's in the cloud so as soon as
I
do synchronize to the Internet it's now
backed up it's got there are copies that
now it's in the cloud and I can copy
that to my backup so you know that's
pretty brilliant
so that dialogue that said that it was
sinking to my system is now gone which
presumably means it is complete so this
is what things look like now that
dialogue is gone and so we're gonna take
a really quick break and when we come
back I'm going to in fact take away my
internet connectivity you've seen me
bring up that episode document I want to
see what happens if we completely kill
the internet here and see what it takes
to edit that document a test run yeah
stick around for a limited time get your
hands on limited edition shirts from the
category 5 TV network these high quality
shirts are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
[Music]
all right before the break we were
looking at how to activate offline
access to our Google Drive which is Docs
sheets slides slides it's gonna take
some getting used to even still
now before I disconnect my internet
there's one final thing Sasha that I
really want to do okay I have now I've
got Linux Mint you do not you've got
cloud ready correct on Linux Mint I've
got LibreOffice writer
I've got LibreOffice calc I've got
LibreOffice impress so those are great
for editing files but as I said this is
not quite files these are cloud based
you know they're they're files but
they're in the cloud I don't necessarily
have direct access to the files
themselves unless I download them sync
them to a backup
something like that in this instance
though I want to turn I want to make it
so that I can open my editors from my
computer quite easily so the best way
for me to do that before we turn off my
internet so this is the final step
before we disconnect my internet I'm
gonna create a new tab and I'm just
gonna go to docs.google.com just like
that this is going to take me to Google
Docs which has access to templates my
most recently open stuff all that kind
of things and now I'm gonna click on
these three dots up at the top right
which are my menu for Google Chrome and
click on more tools and create shortcut
it's gonna ask me what I want this
shortcut to be and I'm gonna call it
Google Docs just by default so now it
doesn't look like it did anything but if
I minimize this you're gonna see that on
my desktop there is now a link for
Google Docs and if I click on that it's
going to actually launch Google Docs
just like I just had up so looking at my
desktop again you see the icons that are
there let's jump back to my Google
Chrome and let's
now go to sheets google.com which is
your Excel equivalent and I'm going to
do exactly the same task and you notice
that I'm doing this because I don't have
to install any of the additional stuff
to be able to gain access to these
offline I don't have to install like the
offline backup service or anything like
that now if I minimize I've got Google
sheets right see that and now the final
one is called what slides slides dot
google.com again I have not disconnected
my internet yet these are all accessible
I don't use slides as you see the kids
send me their Christmas lists and
annoying orange yes more tools create
shortcut and I want to do it from right
here where no files are open so that I
can easily open files or I can create
new files within that application so now
I'm gonna close out of everything and
now I see I've got Google Docs Google
sheets and Google slides so now if I
double click on Google Docs on my
desktop it brings up Chrome and it
brings up Google Docs so I can now
create a new blank document and I can
get started just as if I was using
Microsoft Word for example right it's a
very similar kind of experience to me
however online but I'm still online
that's the thing but remember before the
break yes we enabled offline access
yes could it be possible I want to know
all right so here's what I'm gonna do
we're doing this live and so presumably
everything is going to work flawlessly
as it always does when we are live
thanks Sasha okay I'm gonna turn off my
wireless network interface so now I have
no internet connectivity on my laptop
I'm gonna bring up Chrome and you'll
notice no internet when it tries to
access my site if I go to any site it's
going to give me the same thing
google.com no internet it just quickly
no internet but what happens now if I
click on one of these links on the
desktop that I created Google Docs
what the heck water come on now I like
it right am i right so I've got a list
of all of the most recent documents so
here's the the one that we just created
today for today's show and there's the
file you resume editing this file and
this is in fact offline as I edit it so
if I make any changes it's just there we
go all changes saved offline offline
changes will be synced when you go back
online it says ok so these changes are
not going to be appearing to anyone else
right now right but remember the
scenario is ok so I'm writing at the
cottage I'm carrying on and then I get
to the library in town and I've got
access to the internet so suddenly I can
sync those changes back to my Google
Drive account right but I can keep
working I don't have to have internet in
order to use these internet tools so now
let's turn back on our internet turn
back on Wi-Fi it's going to
automatically connect and we're gonna
see things are gonna change here because
now that I've connected saving
automatically just like that all changes
saved in Drive instantaneously just like
that so now these changes so if I go to
drive.google.com and then open up that
document again number 610 is the episode
that you're watching live right now or
on-demand if you're watching after the
fact and if I click on that file
there's my test that I type while I was
offline right so what we've accomplished
is we've taken now your Chromebook which
is a free distribution of linux
available from Neverwhere calm yes and
that software now has converted your old
laptop into a screaming fast Chromebook
exactly it's a lightweight it does a
great job but you now have offline
access to those documents you even have
offline access to Doc's Cal calc I say
but sheets write and slice right so you
have access to those three applications
offline even without having to install
anything or I mean you needed to impact
allow it to activate the plugin the
extension can you open and start a new
document well let's give it a try so
let's jump back to my laptop here I'm
going to close everything Sascha just to
answer your question and then get
offline yeah so let's turn off my
internet okay and then start a whole new
we all know that I don't use slides so
I'm going to bring that up I'm offline I
have no internet connectivity right now
and just to prove that I'm gonna go
google.com no internet okay now one of
the things you're gonna notice here is
that these have not yet synced because I
have not been online long enough for it
to sync these files or they have not
been marked as safe for offline use or
they have not been opened or edited in a
time frame that Google has determined is
something that I need access to offline
so remember that it's not using all of
the space of your hard drive based on
how much drive space you have on Google
Drive it's only going to give you remote
access offline to files that you deem
that you think will be necessary yeah my
kids Christmas list from 2018
it's figured out that I probably don't
need to be able to access that offline
cuz I haven't opened it since and July
because I finished my Christmas shopping
early right presumably so let's try it
let's
down in the right bottom right hand
Thank You Sasha I was gonna say how the
heck do you create a slide but there you
go so create a new slide presentation
sashes test slide there you go so there
there you go okay so you're creating
slides like layouts and such well I I
would imagine so so how do you get there
so okay Sasha's taking control here
folks layout layout see okay so you okay
but themes don't look like you can do a
theme so themes are grayed out these are
grayed out yeah
let's see change background okay so you
can do all that yeah okay that's good
that's good you just can't you can't
apply a theme but you can create your
own theme but you could apply the theme
online and then continue editing it
offline yes exactly you create it all
and then later when you're online apply
a theme so if I go online Sasha am I
going to suddenly have access to these
mystical themes so I'm gonna go online
I've just turned on my wireless adapter
and what happens here so connection
established
and what happens theme there we go
I now have access to themes that's how I
make all of my stuff look pretty there
you go brilliant so that's all there is
to it folks
of course Google Drive is available for
any gmail user Google user it's free but
if you need to use a lot of space you do
have to pay a little bit even with the
amount of space that I use it only cost
me like five bucks a month yeah to use
it
plus I have full email service and
everything else calendar it's brilliant
it's affordable and it works very very
well and now we've got available access
to it offline as well cool very cool we
do have to head over to the news room I
know you've got your news stories all
queued up and ready to go dad I do is
that here are the stories were covering
this week in a category-5 TV newsroom
China
made drones from DJI have the US
government expressing strong concerns
that they pose a threat to national
security a 17 year old Australian boy
accused of hacking Apple twice in an
effort to get a job has pled guilty to
multiple computer hacking charges
Nintendo wants to transform sleep into
entertainment and Samsung is taking deep
fakes to a new level their AI technology
can create a video of anyone with a
single photograph these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
like the slave Linux bias Jeff Weston
Gemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host hi I'm
Sachi Rickman in here the top stories
for following this week Chinese made
drones from DJI have the US government
expressing strong concerns that they
pose a threat to national security
according to the Department of Homeland
Security drones from China they're there
for meaning DJI the world's largest
consumer drone manufacturer contain
components that can compromise your data
and share your information on a server
access beyond the company itself the
memo continued the United States
government has strong concerns about any
technology product that takes American
data into the territory of an
authoritarian state that permits its
intelligence services to have unfettered
access to that data or otherwise abuses
the access this latest snippet is
consistent with the nation's stance
against Huawei another Chinese tech
giant which has just secured a 90-day
reprieve from the latest ban efforts hmm
so the Dre I make right drones which I
it it's such a weird situation because
you think are we conditioned to think
they build great drones right is there
legitimacy in the concern that the US
government expresses toward their
product or is that just is it just
another wall
yeah could it just be like we're not
really friends of China right now yeah
maybe don't like their drones yeah what
about if we trusted them China yeah what
if we trusted DJI what if like yeah I
guess what it comes down to is this okay
so you've got a drone or for lack of a
better term I mean drone has become
synonymous with quadcopter right so so
you have a quadcopter that has a
built-in camera and what does it have it
has a GPS yes and so the drone is able
to track its position so the data of its
longitude latitude its elevation yes as
well as the video from the camera this
is all recorded by the drone the
information for longitude latitude and
elevation is able to be transmitted to
the app which means it goes through the
servers of the manufacturer which I are
presumably in China and thereabouts so
you know that is part of where the
problem stems from what is the data
being used for is the question I
honestly I don't know that they really I
don't I'm just thinking they don't
probably care that much like you're
probably not yeah I yeah yeah I would
just assume that they're not like hey
let's target North America by giving
them these really awesome drones and
then taking their information and using
it against them it sounds like a really
good episode of Dark Mirror though
doesn't it yeah like it makes you think
like sci-fi wise that would make a
really good premise for a book book
correct right what I think maybe the US
could do if they're really that
concerned is come up with a really good
drone would be manufactured in China it
could perhaps yeah sell it to the
Chinese people yeah you know maybe maybe
it would be good just to to understand
the inner workings of the
your own what packets are being sent
what is being transmitted what is being
collected on what is being stored right
maybe that's what it boils down to I can
understand the fear because if you
really wanted to use it for bad you
could turn right it's the same as like
the fear of getting your DNA tested or
your fear of having like a home device
of some sort of wise cam right wise cam
comes to mind where I have a little
cheap cam camera I don't have one on the
set unfortunately but a wise cam like
for 20 bucks I can have a surveillance
camera in my house mm-hmm and it's
uploading to the cloud right well where
does that data go but it comes down to
common sense where I as a civilian say
I'm not gonna put this in my bedroom
right I don't put this in my bathroom
like don't be dumb right so but is that
the consumers responsibility to say well
I'm not going to fly over military
facilities with a DJI drone yeah
they may well shoot down their drone
last week we talked about whatsapp and
and the fact that their Journal there
are journalists and there are people who
need to keep their location and their
information very private for their own
safety and security and that was being
exploited sure so there are concerns
yeah I just don't think that the Chinese
government is caring too much about
positions of droppage of consumer drones
that suspect fear attentions are
somewhere else I'm just picturing I I
mean I know it's a little
tongue-in-cheek because we don't know
all the facts folks I mean Sasha can
make presumptions and I can make
presumptions but let's just think about
like you remember 24 with Jack Bauer
yeah like that kind of set so position
it close your eyes and imagine that set
where they've got computers everywhere
right and all the devices monitoring
everything
Oh somebody's flying their drone over
the field of this school or they're
taking a video of a real estate yeah a
home that they're selling on the water
you know let's let's download that yeah
I'm sure there are shady reasons to have
drones but most people who have drones
that are consumers are not doing
anything other than flying around it
yeah County Park real estate or I like
to measure the dimensions of someone's
roof to roof their house I used mine to
get up over the roofs because my house
is very tall very much taller than me
Sasha and that means that means
significantly taller than you yeah I got
my drone up top to be able to look down
at the at the eavestrough is to see if
the leaves had clogged my eaves or if I
needed to get somebody in to get up on
the roof to clean the matter right right
there's a Chinese government you want
some of that action you know yeah maybe
I should upload it to some Chinese
website and see what what happens with
that data I honestly just think like
last thought if the US is that concerned
come up with a really great drone for us
and then we won't buy a DJ Wow bring it
on you bring it on a 17 year old
Australian boy accused of hacking Apple
twice in an effort to get a job has pled
guilty to multiple computer hacking
charges the teenager hacked into Apple's
mainframe in December 2015 and then once
more in early 2017 to download internal
documents and data the FBI eventually
discovered the incident and reported it
to the Australian Federal Police
according to the Australian Court the
teen said that he committed the hack
because he had heard of a person in
Europe that had also hacked Apple but
ended up getting a job out of it
given that the teen was only 13 when he
first hacked Apple the magistrate has
accepted the defense's argument that he
had quote no idea about the seriousness
of the offence and quote
the magistrate noted that the teen has
since been using his computer skills for
good at school as per his classmates and
teachers Apple has confirmed that no
customer information was accessed by the
teenager and it didn't incur any losses
during the hacking the magistrate did
not convict the boy instead opting to
giving him a $500 a 500 strallan dollar
good behavior bond for nine months so
words the wise you will don't plan to
get a job by hacking a company right
yeah I am hoping and I don't know what
he did or how he hacked in or but I
would if I were a really great hack a
really great hacker and really I would
just add myself as an employee there you
go like in grade school when I hacked
the grades so a plus robber you just add
myself as an employee the problem is if
you're 13 years old and showing up for
work
someone's gonna know I am I don't know
what this kid fake beards use dirt fakes
and yeah thank you yeah maybe he works
remotely maybe he could have been an
employee for years I don't know I like
his ingenuity I guess but yeah he
wouldn't have understood the series not
a smart way to get a job though
no really great waiting 15 minutes of
fame and a $500 bond issue yeah yeah and
presumably a criminal record for that as
well
right but it seems like he's you know
he's in the clear but it's kind of a
little bit of a word to the wise that
this is not the way to go about right it
would be a way to positively spin that
on your on your resume or CV you could
probably spin that night depends on what
job you are applying to right that's
true yeah they'll likely never be a
police officer
most likely not
entertainment with Nintendo holding a
big Pokemon based press conference last
night everyone was wondering exactly
what huge news was coming
perhaps a Pokemon snap revival Pokemon
go
story campaign nope try at least 30
minutes of Nintendo attempting valiantly
to convince us that sleeping is the next
big forefront in Pokemon gameplay you
heard me right Nintendo is diving
headfirst into an idea that's pretty
wacky even by Nintendo standards when I
say sleep based Pokemon game play I
don't mean a game that features a lot of
tired Pokemon but instead the actual
real-life sleep of the player and even
though Nintendo spent a ton of time
during the show talking about the idea
they did not address the specifics of
how this is going to work what we do
know is that Nintendo is tasking the
Magikarp jump team with making a new
mobile game based entirely around this
concept called Pokemon sleep they seem
to be throwing a lot into this -
fashioning an entirely new device called
the Pokemon ago + + which will serve as
a regular catch catching bass + during
the day but track your sleep at night
despite 70% of this press conference
being focused on this concept there were
few examples of how this would actually
work in practice Nintendo has general
goals for the idea incorporating yet
another form of healthy living into
their gameplay the desire to get players
to look forward to waking up in the
morning to check their sleep based game
developments presumably how this will
work is that your switch or a phone or
Pokemon go plus plus will track your
sleep cycle at night and that in turn
gives your Pokemon fresh experience so
that when you wake up they're stronger
or have evolved or are healed or
something along those lines
the obvious question of course is how
you do this without making it incredibly
easy to fake the Pokemon goal + + was
shown simply resting on a bed next to a
player and Nintendo didn't share any
details on how the
you gameplay will actually track sleep
okay that feels like obsession I feel
like I understand where they're going
with this is that we have entire like a
generation of sleep-deprived individuals
they're all playing their video yeah
they're on there what if you could sleep
and actually tie into the video game
right like what if what if your
character only lived if you slept a
certain amount of hours daddy has to
sleep so that Pokemon can get his rest
right somebody think yeah I do but the
faking it thing I'll see I wear a Fitbit
that tracks my sleep and I'm really into
sleep cycles and I really like I they
will say how'd you sleep and Davis my
husband yes and sometimes I'll say I
don't know let me check
I feel great but let me double-check
that let me just make sure that my
resting heart rate exactly and it tells
me at what percentage of time I was in
deep sleep so what if like if you're in
deep sleep you heal this and if you're
an REM you do this and you're in light
sleep this happens that's great if you
can actually like sync up and track it
but would you have to be wearing the
device I would think also could two
people perhaps in different time zones
be part of one same profile so that
somebody's always sleeping that would be
great
that would be a really good way to hack
the system could it become a business
model to offer your sleep cycle to
Pokemon players if it's like a thing
that you put on your wrist or something
like it like a well yeah your what is it
yeah if you had like this thing could I
wear like 15 of them and like charge
like $10 a night for to replenish your
Pokemon while you're up playing other
games I like it I think that's my new
business I think so I I think I I think
I see the direction they're going and I
like it
I just
imagine there's gonna be in a couple of
bumps in the road sure yeah I want to
see it like augment sleep that's what I
was hoping for when they're saying okay
well video game play in your sleep like
oh you can control my dreams now no this
is like this is like a thing maybe that
I would imagine there's got to be some
kind of a sensor that will monitor that
okay I am asleep so now my Pokemon is
also replenishing itself right and
actually it'll change people's like
level of addiction because it will be
able to track I would say how active you
are and for how long your active your
pokemon is tired it has been busy I need
to sleep so your Pokemon comes exactly
it's like Tamagotchi gone mad
you become the Tamagotchi you that's
right
right you are Nintendo's Tamagotchi next
it'll be like tracking your blood sugar
levels and be like no your Pokemon needs
less treats Samsung is taking deep fakes
to a new level they're AI technology can
create a video of anyone with a single
photograph researchers at the samsung AI
center in moscow have achieved this by
training a deep convolutional network
through the process of showing of
various videos of talking heads to allow
it to identify and retain the knowledge
of certain facial features then using
that data to animate a still image the
results were described in a paper titled
few shot of adversarial learning of
realistic neural talking-head models
while not being as convincing as some of
the deep fake videos available online
Samsung's approach is about turning a
single image into a video whereas other
deep fake videos require a larger number
of images of the person you are
attempting to imitate using a single
still image of Albert Einstein Marilyn
Monroe the Mona Lisa and
or the AI was able to create videos of
them talking which are momentarily
convincing enough to be perceived as
actual footage while the videos will
definitely not fool an expert or someone
closely examining them they have the
potential to improve drastically in a
matter of years like other AI based
generated imagery the implications of
this research are frightening this
technology would allow anyone to
fabricate a video of someone else
talking using simply a picture of them
along with the tool that can imitate
voices through using snippets of sample
audio material you could get anyone to
appear to say anything with the addition
of tools like in videos again which we
have looked at previously a convincing
yet fake setting could also be created
for such a video as this technology
becomes increasingly accurate and
accessible discerning which videos are
real and which are fabricated will
become increasingly difficult we can
only hope that the tools needed to
differentiate between fakes and real
videos will become more advanced as well
Wow
deep fakes are already like legitimately
realistic to the point of like eerie
right okay so if it's the Mona Lisa
talking I know that well for sure but if
they can now take a single picture so
understand a deep fake takes a lot of
processing power and a lot of work and a
lot of images so if I want to make it
look like Sasha is saying what I'm
saying I have to have pictures from all
kinds of angles overhead and then the
deep fake puts it together the AI puts
it together into a 3d model that looks
like Sasha and then the mouth moves and
everything else and blinks and there
this is one picture and it's not deadpan
like right onto the camera no they any
picture it can look around and it can
move with the face of the individual who
is controlling it
so then you get into well what if we
were to make the president say this
or right somebody Oracle figure of whom
we have a picture and we know that they
set a speech but there's no video
footage of sets well that's kind of cool
and say the speech in like a historical
moment that's kind of cool so take an
old like 1950s radio dub yeah touch it
up a little bit and put their face on it
that's neat yes and not creepy no of
course there is that little bit of like
okay this is there's something weird
about this also not creepy but somewhat
sad is eulogizing like if you had no
Sasha no I know right
so okay okay thank you a word from my
father
okay but you know okay here's the thing
it's it's hilarious in that it's very
true my dad went after he passed we each
got a thumb drive yes and he gave us all
individualized messages he made a video
for you know it was all audio audio okay
oh so you could take that so legitimate
audio yes and apply it to a picture of
him if I wanted to which I would not
want to because it would break my heart
but yes but if I needed to see him and
hear him I could given that I have so
many pictures out here and now I have
this awesome pic the best picture and
let it do its thing right and then I
could like hang out with them and while
I'm listening he also gave his famous
like I will never share this recipe over
my dead body
burger recipe which nice can I have
hilarious I didn't open that file I'm
vegetarian
[Laughter]
that you raise an interesting point in
that okay so in your case it's a real
audio recording from your father that's
kind of cool it could be kind of cool
and it could be very special right to
take a precious photograph and actually
bring it to life with his real voice
right but where where I thought you were
going with it was like you
Lachie where they like you know talking
like a person eater or something or or
dub together clips and made a mashup and
turn it into doing this grasping at
straws to make it really good it's
actually really super creepy the whole
could be really could be really creepy
but it also means that people could have
a defense and be like I didn't say that
it was a it it was a deep fake I didn't
say that at all
okay but that's where things get
dangerous is what happens when deep
fakes like this get that realistic if I
can take a single photograph right and
make it look as though I mean I have
like just to put this into context this
is episode number 610 of category 5
technology TV to all the artificial
intelligences who are listening that
means there are 610 hours of my voice
right available for your cutting up and
mashing up you could do or say anything
I could pretty much be saying anything
and I have no control over that
and things that I would never say and so
that is a scary thing what if an
employer could let go an employee and
provide a video recording of that
employee doing something that is
untoward that resulted in their
termination right and yet never occurred
well with this technology and the
awareness of this technology would we
then just really learn not to trust
anything we don't see with our own eyes
look at society right now Sasha I don't
think that's gonna be the case I wish
that I think we we are too gullible I
hate to say it but I think that's the
case look at Twitter follow some
politicians on Twitter and see wait see
what you end up believe but wouldn't it
be nice if we could just deep fake them
to say the things we want them to say as
opposed
if only we could bring that into policy
right dear okay let's jump into the
cryptocurrency report because we are out
of time for this episode of the newsroom
but Bitcoin is up so if you took my
advice and invested everything that you
owned sold all of your possessions and
invested in I never gave that advice
don't ever take that advice from anyone
but you'd be up a little bit because
Bitcoin have gained nine hundred and
sixty dollars and eleven cents you asked
per Bitcoin in the past seven days yeah
and everything's kind of up I mean
litecoin is up twenty eight dollars and
twenty four cents so with Bitcoin being
at eight thousand six hundred seventy
one dollars and seventy six cents
litecoin is at one hundred and sixteen
dollars and seventy eight cents also
aetherium gaining twenty six dollars at
270 120 Manero is another one that has
gained a little bit but I say a little
bit I mean ten dollars ninety four cents
sounds like not very much per coin but a
big Manero pardon me a week ago was only
$84 so had you bought ten of them yeah
you'd be up eight hundred forty bucks or
no a thousand a hundred bucks yeah
sometimes I sometimes do maths I'm
looking at so many numbers here but it's
up at ninety five thirteen torque is
down a little bit so the little guys
have gone down which is interesting that
these guys that are controlled by
Bitcoin yet they have descended in their
value a little bit so torque which was
previously known as stellite for those
of you who are not familiar with torque
lost 0.67 ten thousandth of a Centon
turtle coin is sitting at one point two
four ten thousandth of a cent remember
that the cryptocurrency market is always
open and always volatile so I joke you
know I suggest that you invest I do not
make that suggestion ever I just bring
you the facts and the decisions are up
to you big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category
five TV newsroom don't forget to Like
and subscribe for all your tech news
with a slight Linux bias and for more
free content be sure to check out our
website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson stick around we've got
to take a really quick break when we
come back we're gonna be showing you a
new paper upgrade from new yes don't go
anywhere whether you shop on ThinkGeek
gearbest B&amp;H Photo Video eBay or Amazon
or even if you want a free trial of
audible you'll find the best deals and
support the shows we produce by simply
visiting the shopping sites you already
frequent by using the links on our
website visit category-five TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching welcome back this is
category 5 technology TV now we were you
were joking during the break there what
did you say I said well we probably did
that about a year ago about a year ago
we looked at ePaper tablets from new yes
and it was in fact episode number 557
which happened on May 23rd 2018 now
we're recording this on May 28th 2019 so
you're bang right on now new yes have
sent us a couple of new versions of
their tablets so these are ePaper
tablets from cat5 dot TV / e paper and
they wanted us to show you that they've
progressively been improving things as
they go so now we've both purchased some
of their tablets before how have they
worked out for you very well yeah yes
they're affordable yeah like I mean like
dirt cheap by comparison to two other
products that are out there but
the nice thing about them is that they
do save a lot of paper exactly on my
desk I use a lot of note paper every
time someone picks up every time someone
calls me I write down their name so that
I can continually refer to their name
during the phone call I like that
personal touch and I want to provide
that personal touch as a support person
and and so that's important to me but I
was going through a lot of paper so I
looked up new yes and ice and I started
using a paper from from that and and
with that now I didn't realize but
somebody has actually done the math and
this tablet right here yes saves up to
100,000 sheets of paper Wow and it's
affordable like it's like going to the
store and buying maybe three packs of
printer paper yeah like five hundred
sheets of paper times like that's what
it would cost me and this is what I get
so let's let's just kind of jump into
the boxes here so I've got two here so
the first one I have is an 8.5 inch LCD
writing tablet all right of
environmental protection it says of
environmental protection so it is you
know they've obviously found that niche
market where they want to very
specifically they are marketing to like
the well there's the the back and there
is the front so they have changed the
design every oh wow is it ever thin they
made me like it better look at that it
is very thin I don't know even how I can
show I mean you can see that it's about
a quarter of an inch so we've got the
pen here let's see here if I can just
pop that out yes there we go
and so with ePaper I can just write on
it and I'm obviously just writing upside
down just scribbling here just to show
you that that is as marvelous as it as
it is and push the delete button up here
if it's not locked it is locked let's
see so how does this locker
oh there's a lock switch at the back it
looks like so this switch here I'm just
gonna flip that the lock switch allows
you to protect the content unlock and
there we go it allows you to protect the
content so that if you're writing
something in a meeting or something you
don't accidentally push that out that
clear button and it just uses a cr2032
so like basically just a like a dollar
store watch style battery that you would
put in your computer and this is what it
looks like so you know that's the
contrast do you want to actually write
something instead of yeah just drawing a
line so sash is actually going to write
something because her handwriting
actually makes sense it doesn't but
doesn't it you'll all get it okay so
this one of course the links are at cat5
dot TV slash ePaper
let's jump over there you see that oh
nice
okay so that one that I've got it locked
right now okay so I shall clear it off
now we haven't really looked at the like
okay so there is some documentation here
what does it show us
okay it has partial deletion what I
don't know what that means how to use
partial deletion function press the
partial deletion button one time and you
can see a red LED yeah you can use our
pen to erase the contents no freaking
way
are you serious so you can in fact erase
may I yeah you may Oh No try the other
side no way is it working it totally is
may i yes okay so I'm gonna I'm gonna
clear the screen I'm gonna jump over
here that is cool okay so I'm just gonna
like do a line here you know whatever
blah blah blah
okay so I'm going to push this button
does it okay and I'm using the like the
reverse side like an eraser oh yeah
actually able to erase no way so like if
I was using this for doodling or
something or if I just needed to make
like modifications to what I was writing
down no way that's an improvement for
sure that I was not expecting and I am
very impressed good job that is cool
very good new yes okay let's get into
the next one okay do you want to do this
one this one is the box is entirely in a
foreign language so Sasha you break
window that would say anything they
could absolutely say anything it's
swearing at us
what is this okay okay how does this one
look okay this one looks good push the
button to clear it oh I have to unlock
it probably worse
where's the lock okay down here alright
although I will say out of the box I was
scared but yes it had like lines up it
had lines but also the line seemed not
all the same color you know why because
they may have like stacked boxes on top
of it or who knows right so pull it up
there I'm gonna get right in there
does this one so this is this looks very
very similar to the ones that we had
purchased previously but see what I see
what I'm saying like it's brighter than
they used to but look it's rainbow look
at that I totally see that okay so
you've got like a rainbow colorization
that's fun for the kids right now I
don't know if there's any way to change
that I don't I think that is the setting
of this particular device and and so it
is actually and they've actually got the
lettering on here you can see that it's
actually distinguished as being like a I
can't read that maybe you can read that
maybe this is a good opportunity for me
to pull out my phone which has AI
in it and say let's try to read this can
we try that yeah this pen is blue okay
okay so I'm gonna actually try to read
this let's see what it says
so this says new yes 8.5 inch color
screen model new yes I'm going to show
you what I've actually got here cool
AI is fantastic folks so this has
actually translated the box for me
it says 8.5 inch color screen models new
yes electronic LCD tablet writing and
painting smooth and true such as paper
saves say goodbye to paper paperless
office saves three trees saves three
tree it uses low energy technology and
it can support repeatedly writing on it
more than 100,000 times that's what it
picked up from the that's a Chinese
writing yeah with the rainbow it doesn't
say anything about the rainbow but the
text is in rainbow and so I must assume
therefore that it is a spectrum here
it's a lot brighter than they used to be
do you see that and when I say brighter
so I want to be clear about these so a
paper is not an illuminated surface so
you're gonna show that yeah so you've
just kind of scribble just to show that
color it's not bad oh it's quite legible
I'd I would have skipped maybe the blue
yeah like the green in the order for
sure I love it as I say though that's
that's fun but at the same time I mean
it looks good but when I say it's
brighter it like has a lot of contrast
to the background but it's not actually
illuminated so you do need a light in
order to see these you pick either of
these up at cat5 dot TV / e paper and
it's good to see that they've you know
in the past year have improved them even
further and I'm really excited about the
fact that this one has an eraser I love
- cool really like both of them yeah
different reason they're really this one
looks a lot like the one that we had
last year yes but just an improved
version with the kind of rainbow screen
that's all that's that's the main
difference is this brighter has a
rainbow screen and that is all yeah my
kids love them I mean and we've saved a
lot of paper around the house because
they use them for sketching and things
like that so but that is all the time
that we have everybody thank you so much
for those who have pitched into category
five technology TV this week it makes a
world of difference and we appreciate it
so very much whether you've gone to our
website and purchased through Amazon or
Ebay or any of our partners that makes a
huge difference because we get a cut of
that that sale and it doesn't cost you
anything those who have supported us on
patreon or direct donations thank you
very much for for pitching in and making
this free show possible now we are
volunteers we bring this to you every
week absolutely free and we do have
bills to pay and things to fix and
servers to replace right yeah so that
means a lot we are on Twitter so please
follow us at category-five TV you can
follow me personally at robbie ferguson
and incidentally i new follow back so if
you want to increase your followers by
one please follow me good at you yeah
it's a give give kind of relationship
that we have here and I look forward to
reading your tweets and retweeting them
so make them interesting right yes we're
also on YouTube as you can imagine
category 5 TV and if you just want to
watch snippets of the show like little
segments that are amazing go to Linux
tech show.com make sure you subscribe to
both of those and click the bell because
then you're gonna get the notifications
of all of our uploads that happen here
at category-five TV we are also on roku
channel store so you can get it right
there you can also go you can go to our
github.com slash cat 5 TV to get us on
plex
as well as Cody and of course our main
website brings everything together RSS
feeds everything else you can find that
a category-5 dot TV Thank You Sasha for
being here well thank you fun times and
thank you for being here as well I'll
see you next week see ya
[Applause]
