here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom the
UK tax man has fallen foul of the GDP
are agreeing to wipe 5 million voice
recordings used to make biometric IDs
did your Firefox browser break over the
weekend and you're not alone in fact
virtually everyone who uses Mozilla as
popular browser encountered this issue
and will tell you why
on Tuesday Google began rolling out a
new feature that allows you to configure
how long it can save data from all of
the Google services you use like Maps
search and everything you do online and
researchers have taken steps towards an
iconic Star Trek medical device these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories
like Linux bias Jeff Westen
Jemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website what
aren't you right you're a terrible actor
what the swear acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host I am Sasha Eichmann and here
the top stories were following this week
the UK tax man has fallen foul of the
GDP are agreeing to wipe 5 million voice
yes that's right Her Majesty's Revenue
and Customs aka the tax collector has
agreed to delete five million voice
recordings that it used to create
biometric IDs the voice IDs were used to
speed access to its phone lines but were
created before the implementation of the
European general data protection
regulation and violated the tougher
rules
HMRC will keep about 1.5 million voice
IDs which are in use but the lead around
five million where explicit consent was
not received and where those people had
never used the system since creating the
ID it's actually some pretty cool tech
they had followed several banks and
other organizations in using a my voices
my password system to identify account
holders it will continue to use the
system but in line with GDP our rules
and its own published privacy policy
chief executive Sir Jonathan Thompson
said in a letter that they will continue
to use voice ID because it is quote
popular with our customers is a more
secure way of protecting customer data
and it enables us to get callers through
to an adviser faster end quote
I'm calling about my taxes so let's let
me talk to you about my taxes so what
somebody can maybe like a Trump em first
impersonator could actually get to the
bottom of their that's so much I mean
granted they're getting rid of so many
voice data files but what happens if you
sound just like somebody else sure dude
can you like alright there is it like
think nobody's there like actually a
like a subtle difference all the time
tone Asians different rock some of
really good impression what if your
voice changes what if right like I was
just saying to Rob even I wake up in the
morning I've got this great washing my
hands so much that my fingerprint reader
doesn't work on my phone anymore
so what if you yeah I've like washed my
fingerprints too
they're too weak now trained a dirty
fingerprint it's like that time your
print but I've washed them all off I was
fixing something at the cottage and I
got crazy glue on my fingers and
couldn't unlock my phone for a week
right so okay so this can happen what if
your voice changes right laryngitis when
you're calling it yeah there's got to be
an alternate way to burn or something
right like something happen yeah yeah
there must be an alternative the fact
that they have to delete because they
didn't get the consent like you have to
what now great all these people have not
checked in with the service since but
like what kind of impact is that gonna
have in the future if those people do
happen to call it well they'll have to
wait in line to talk to an adviser there
you go or and to enter a new voice print
ID right cuz it's been deleted which now
they will get explicit consent correct
yeah right because you know after gdpr
came into play now they know okay we we
have to and that's why they can keep the
last 1.5 million yeah which is why is it
really that bad to have somebody's voice
on record I guess maybe it is but I
wouldn't like it would be of concern if
it's
if it's an AI imprint of your voice then
could it not be used to then
authenticate against other AIS like
write a whole speech in Sasha voice - on
that all my arse right yeah did your
Firefox browser break over the weekend
you're not alone in fact virtually
everyone who uses Mozilla as popular
browser encountered this issue and will
tell you why
on Friday the expiration of a mod sell a
certificate used to check the signatures
of add-on codes in Firefox desktop and
Android web browsers cause a nearly
universal failure of Firefox plugins and
extensions as browsers detected them as
invalid and disabled them yeah the bug
dubbed ARMA Gadahn 2.0 was addressed by
a hotfix issue over the weekend and a
new version of the browser has been
pushed out this isn't the first time the
sort of thing has happened with Firefox
the original Armageddon happened almost
exactly three years ago on May 2nd 2016
when an expired certificate caused
signature verification errors for
add-ons a patch was pushed out to most
Firefox desktop users on May 5th
however the fix does not help Firefox
ESR or Android users an update for those
browsers is still in the works for some
users the patch required them to change
browser privacy and security settings
before it can kick in because Mozilla is
deploying the patch using Firefox's
Studies system to rapidly deploy the
patch Studies is a system used by
Firefox to deploy pre-release features
to users before they're added to a
release update some organizations and
users may disable studies because they
introduce code that hasn't been tested
fully and might send usage data back to
Mozilla but because of the speed with
which Mozilla needed to deploy the
certificate fix it was pushed out with
studies rather than as part of a browser
update which means users will have to at
least temporarily rent re-enable studies
to regain functionality
from the point of view of enabling
studies it could take up to six hours
for the patch to be applied so six hours
after enabling study if you even catch
it now and then there's those of us like
I'm pretty tech savvy I installed
Chrome when it happened because I just
what's going on LastPass isn't working I
can't get on to any websites yeah
forget this Chrome installed LastPass
and that's all I that's what's on my
computer now you know what do you use I
have Chrome and Firefox yeah and I
happened to be on both this weekend and
had zero issue lucky you huh you were
offline I was all I was building website
all weekend I've had certificates expire
yeah and I've had to retro actively fix
that huh but I'm generally a pretty
small player in the grand scheme of the
interwebs now Mozilla not so much a
small player right like one of the top
two browsers in the universe hmm like
aliens use this stuff so this kind of
thing shouldn't happen twice twice
happened twice it just shouldn't happen
and I think that's probably the
discussion that they're having around
the boardroom table today somebody's in
super trouble it just shouldn't happen
and it really it makes me feel less
confident in the company yeah yeah
absolutely
um I also just want to say this whole
studies thing reminds me of like Windows
updates that can bring systems right I
just know if it was Windows updates it
would have bricked the system when it
updated this is an update to fix the
system right but people have turned off
this studies thing right specifically
because they don't want Mozilla to
collect their data yeah weird yeah the
question is do you want to allow us to
install test patches right no I want I
want the good stuff test the patches and
then exactly
the Google services you use like maps
search and everything you do online
until now you had to manually go in and
delete this data or turn it off entirely
but delegate deleting it means Google
doesn't always have enough information
about you to make recommendations on
what it thinks you'll like or where you
might want to go now you can tell Google
to automatically delete personal
information after three months or 18
months google's activity page says this
quote the activity you keep can improve
your experience anywhere you use your
Google Account what you search read and
watch can work together to help you to
get things done faster discover new
content and pick up where you left off
and vote Google said during its event
Tuesday that it will expand these
controls to make them easier to find
right inside its apps but for now the
quickest and easiest way to manage your
privacy is under a data and
personalization when you log into my
account Google you'll find the new
feature under manage activity Google
said that it's also rolling out similar
controls for how it tracks your location
data some people may say oh but I don't
want Google to track me so you know why
why does it matter to me that Google
needs to be able to make recommendations
right yeah I personally and I realized
that I probably and the very strong
minority on this one I love my my search
history being remembered and my
preferences being remembered
I rate places I've been and hope that
Google will tell me places like it and I
love my location services on because
sometimes I forget what I did yesterday
and then my phone reminds me that aside
being able to look back at your history
being able to look at that's fantastic
and maybe that's something you might
want to opt out of but keeping in mind
that part of what makes Google so great
so powerful and dare I say so accurate
is that it is able to learn from what
you're looking for and and so we think
in terms of advertising because that's
the way the media slants it and we think
oh but I don't want targeted advertising
I don't want those things I don't want
you to know more about me to be able to
display ads well when I search in Google
it also presents results systematically
based upon what it thinks I'm probably
looking for right right so search engine
optimization 101 says Java is the name
of an island so if I'm searching for
vacation spots and I'm looking for a
vacation home or a rental or something
like that and I go into Google and I
type in Java now if it doesn't know
anything about me it's just gonna give
me a whole bunch of pages about coffee
right if it knows that I'm looking for a
vacation hot spot it may present me with
this sweet little island right right so
this information is very very helpful
when it comes to the search engine
standings and how things are presented
to me within Google Google for me is
super smart and intuitive in that I'll
search for a recipe one day and three
days later in my newsfeed
a whole bunch of different recipes will
come up I've made delicious dinners just
based on the fact that Google's like
search is kind of in the cauliflower
right now you know some stuff yeah
what's in your fridge it's right here
you go here's some recipes it's
delicious call if I took cauliflower
sliced it sideways yeah I saw and I
marinated it and brushed it with some
nice like I made my own marinade and
everything and I barbecued it mine I
also put a steak next to it my new
favorite I take not college I take the
florets and I like I make like a flower
water garlicky paste thing am i right
I brushed the stuff on it put it in the
oven then I bake it for about 20 minutes
and then I put hot sauce on it bake it
again for another 20 minutes it's kind
of like a little Tabasco super good
mm-hmm
anyway Jeff wants to move on
iconic Star Trek Star Trek medical
device have you been treating yourself
lately and he cuts her abrasions have
you had to kiss any skinned knees gotten
a scratch from a temperamental cat if
you've had to reach for a bandage since
the year began don't worry you're not
alone in fact in 2018 the u.s. spent
close to seven hundred and seventy four
million dollars on self-sticking
bandages of various kinds and we needed
them open wounds must be covered up so
they can heal properly you don't want
anything infecting the dermis
that's your skin while it grows a new
layer to replace what was lost in injury
and that takes time obviously a paper
cut heals faster than a nasty slip of
the knife well dicing veggies for dinner
and even that heals faster than a larger
wound sustained in a high-impact
accident the larger the wound the longer
it takes to heal if your skin is too
damaged to heal by itself or with the
aid of stitches doctors might try taking
a graft of healthy skin from another
part of your body to replace the injured
spot but it's a painful process leaving
you with just that much more dermis to
regrow taking healthy skin from somebody
else isn't an option either your immune
system zealous defender that it is might
mistakenly treat the new graft as
hostile and make you terribly sick as it
tries to fight off the invader of course
in Star Trek's 24th century any ship's
sick bay home medicine cabinet or a
halfway-decent field medical kit
includes a trusty dermal regenerator
it's the ultimate point-and-click
solution just aim it at the wound and
turn it on and it's gentle beam of
healing light magically closes the skin
up how does it do that the name is a
dead giveaway a dermal regenerator seems
to literally regenerate your dermis by
prompt prompting new skin cells to grow
in the beams wake it's the perfect
solution while you won't find the 24th
century's answer to the band-aid in a
drug store near you anytime soon we can
at least
in our long-term range sensors
researchers at the Wake Forest Institute
for regenerative medicine led by
assistant professor Sean Murphy
developed something that they call a
mobile skin bio printer in June 2018 the
paper was just published in nature's
journal scientific reports in February
2019
let's say you've got a big bad scrape
that needs healing and you call the Wake
Forest team into action first they take
a small sample of healthy skin from you
and they put it into a jar where it can
grow independent of your body once lab
tacks have a nice supply of healthy
happy skin cells they mix them into a
life-sustaining hydrogel and pour it
into the bioprinter which looks like a
couple of microwaves combined with the
3d printing arm bolted to a rack on
wheels they roll it over to your bedside
where an attached device scans your
scrape getting a lasers eye view of Ault
contours and ridges the machine proceeds
to figure out exactly where and how to
place layers of new cells so that
they'll match the structure of the skin
that was originally there once the
scanning is done the bio printers
printing iron gets to work putting down
the cells it was given layer by layer
initial tests were highly encouraging
the bioprinter technique closes wounds
faster causes less puckering from
scanned from scarring and generates new
skin quicker the next step for the Wake
Forest team is to start clinical trials
on humans Wow
I don't want to be somebody who needs
this but I'm happy that it exists if I
become somebody who needs it sounds like
the future it does I mean we've been
printing body parts and organs for a
little bit now like you know you've
heard about you know a heart I think
that's like that's not bio I mean this
is totally a natural progression but
what I wasn't clear to me from this
story is are we talking about like deep
gouges that they're looking to fill in
or just like oh like I would say it
probably does like epidermis dermis
right like probably not subcutaneous
like it's probably not regenerating
right I would think so it's like good
right I pictured like a car when you get
a scratch and you get the exact same
color paint and you just kind of fill in
right you have the exact same dermis
yeah and it's a spray and they could
just kind of spray it on yeah it is your
skin so they must use some sort of weird
like stem cell situation to grow more
skin maybe what I'm wondering though is
could this take on a cosmetic approach
like I'm thinking people who have had
really bad car accidents or whatever oh
why not yeah we are missing part of
their face or something that's like I
struggle with this because of the way I
look could you take that and go you know
what we're gonna regrow that part of the
face that like I would think like it
sounds to me like a replacement for
grafts right so so far could a graft
although it could go that way well I
just I think to myself like when I was
working at a restaurant there was a guy
who was working in the kitchen and
somehow he burnt his leg like his shin
area and the skin would never close up
over it and they were even putting
layers of silver on it to try and to
foster some sort of regeneration and
healing this sounds like like the early
30s like let's just like rub some
mercury evidently silver is a really
good healing thing but they were like
layers of this silver I'm pretty sure
that as a vampire bite right right now
if that were to happen now and you were
really close to the Wake Forest instance
a prime candidate because it's just skin
like the skin on your shin is really
thin so you can gesture print new skin I
love it think about an abrasion yes a
perfect example of a great starting
point yeah so like ah ah yeah right yeah
like that seems like like a practical
regrowth of natural skin right because
these are your skin cells being sprayed
on and the thing is your skin is the
first defense that gets a protective
layer so the sooner you can get that
covered up the better your chances are
of not developing either
locations medically something else
getting in and causing an infection
there breathing else yeah way to go for
Wake Forest industries you grab think of
this moment 10 years from now when they
absolutely revolutionize the world of
medicine it sounds incredible let's get
a real quick look at coin gecko here's
what the crypto market looked like as of
1800 hours Eastern Time on Wednesday
March 8 2019 Bitcoin gained a lot so if
you invested in Bitcoin this week you're
doing well the game 576 dollars and 98
cents u.s. in the past week alone almost
10% was enough it's up from 53:39 all
the way to 59 16 also doing quite well
litecoin is up a little bit at 74 31 a
theory I'm at 169 24 gaining about $11
Manero is at 66 dollars and 48 cents
again gaining now the little guys have
lost ever so slightly and stellite as we
used to know it has renamed itself so
they found out stellite is actually a
trademarked name so it is now called
torque and when you hear torque on the
show just remember that we are now
talking about what was formerly known as
stellite and they are sitting at one
point one eight ten thousandth of a cent
turtle coin is at one point one four
remember if you're going to trade or do
anything in the crypto market or
remember that it is always volatile and
because the crypto currency market never
closes it could change overnight it's
not like the stock market that closes
that the you know 5:00 p.m. or whatever
it is it just keeps on going and things
keep on changing so do keep that in mind
random side note my name is dog is named
torque torque yes we're gonna say crypto
anyone if you named your dog crypto we
will send you a gift that's right
probably a sticker or something probably
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias
and for more free content be sure to
check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Jeff Weston
[Music]
[Applause]
