[Music]
welcome to category five technology TV
episode number 446 for Tuesday the 5th
of April 2016 almost said 2015 yeah what
time travel is like phasing me Spriggs
messing with I know right I'm Robbie and
I'm Jeff Weiss to see ya hey tonight we
are looking at a flash drive that not
only keeps your stuff encrypted but also
protects it from viruses on Microsoft
Windows
it comes from Kingston Technology and
ESET we're gonna give you the sneak peek
of this brand-new device that's awesome
we're also gonna be answering some
viewer questions and Robbie's gonna tell
you how to download a YouTube video to
windows nice we've got the net talk duo
to to give away lots of those to give
away you want to stick around find out
if you'll win and here's what's coming
up in the category 5 dot TV newsroom
Union Memorial Hospital is the epicenter
of a malware attack with ransom being
held for around eight thousand eight
thousand five hundred dollars it seems
like there's a lot of ransomware going
on lately Windows 10 is gonna be having
some form of Ubuntu built into it that's
exciting and changes to how Instagram
content will appear in the apps feed
have sparked a backlash among some of
its users and this one was a good one
for April Fool's Google tried to prank
and it backfired we'll give you some
more details on that and teh that's the
a I bought for Microsoft snuck back
online for another go at the Twitter
users stick around the full details are
coming up later in the show
this is category five technology TV
hey there welcome to the show I'm Robbie
I'm Jeff Weston Jeff I decided to make
the rebel bTW part of my wardrobe
because the tip there works and it
sounds awesome
Oh House of Marley how you spoil us you
know I see you don't have a pair I don't
have a pair oh yeah but that's okay I've
got a birthday coming out up in a few
months there you go
definitely a good birthday here to tell
my wife
but you know the thing I love about
those headphones is I mean I have a
background in radio actually both of us
do yeah so headphones are something that
are fairly important to us and the radio
in a little bit but we were we were
tethered we were I can tell you I don't
think I've heard a better sound of
headphones like for comfort comfortable
in general yeah in general not even
wired one of the comments that came in
last week was the the one thing I don't
like about Bluetooth headphones is the
latency and I just want to say these are
zero late yeah there's nothing so if
you're watching what that means is if
you're watching a movie or something the
lips are synced to the audio now early
Bluetooth early headphones you might
have a little bit of a delay which would
be frustrating if you were watching
something like watches dubbed movie or
something oh yeah no you don't get that
with these it's it's perfect so yeah no
those are incredible I'm I'm incredibly
excited about those House of Marley
well done way to go pick these up folks
I can't wait till they're on Amazon
because I am so quickly adding these to
our store yet send me like an Amazon
link yes just refreshing okay folks
speaking of our Amazon links I just want
to say huge thanks to those of you who
have been supporting us by doing your
shopping on Amazon if your church needs
some equipment computers audio devices
microphones Wireless stuff cameras all
that stuff is on Amazon and in fact one
particular viewer just this week alone
decided to make that their their
shopping spot and buy some electronics
cool and I don't know what it's for all
I see I don't see who they are where
they're from you know who who you are
but I just seal a night
list of what we sold and and I can tell
you know there's there some camera
equipment some wireless microphones and
things like that so obviously some some
some kind of broadcast setup so I see
that but because you decided to purchase
that through our amazon link jeff that
one individual persons purchase paid for
thirteen to fourteen percent of our
entire month no way
in that one per la it makes a huge
difference so can you imagine if one
person can make that much of a
difference if your business needs to buy
some stuff on amazon hey if you need to
buy your toiletries mm-hmm save yourself
a trip to the store plan ahead hey we've
only got six rolls of toilet paper left
it's gonna take a week to get here so
let's order it today makes sense right
amazon is a great place to buy gifts as
well yes your birthday is coming up I
think everyone should buy Jeff something
from an absolutely the House of Marley
headphone right here they're not an
amazon yet we're on it I know I know
but it does make a huge difference that
Amazon stuff Amazon is the the prime
example and in order to support us in
that way all you have to do is go to our
website any of our websites on the
network but category-five dot TV and
when you go there click on support us
and you'll see our our partners and our
partners page lists all of the partners
that we have like eBay Amazon 1-800 GOT
JUNK and all these really oh yeah all
these companies that partner with us and
say hey if people buy through you
through your links we'll give you a
percentage of each sale and that helps
us to pay the bills Amazon is probably
the biggest one for us so by going
through those links you're not it
doesn't charge you anymore it just puts
a portion of the sale into into our
basket and then they send us a check
each month awesome something so huge
with the 100 got junk you can clean out
your house
there you go at five then buy a bunch of
new stuff from Avenue furniture from
Amazon help cat5 a it's perfect like the
way he thinks I like the way I think too
you know if they had a disposable income
to that and
maybe just send a check that's probably
the best thing to do yeah as you know
I've mentioned it before but our bills
are higher than our revenue right now
and in order to stay on top of our bills
we really need that little extra oomph
so even if you're supporting us in other
ways please consider using our tip jar
just throw a one-time contribution in
there and that will give us a nice
little boost as we step into April
because we are a little bit behind and
and I want to get on top of that I'm the
kind of person I like to get everything
paid right on time and I make sure that
everything's set and and it's really
important as we carry on with the shows
that that we keep the bills paid so
thank you to those of you who have been
supporting us and patreon is a big way
to do that as well as cat5 dot TV slash
patreon and just a note we gave away a
bunch of these net talk to a wi-fi's to
our patrons and a couple of our patrons
said oh well if I win that is that going
to eliminate my chance to win the
teenager owns a totally different draw
so don't worry if you're a patron and
you've got a note that you won one of
these hey just send me an email or
respond to the message on patreon with
your address and I'm going to send it to
you we've sent out two so far there are
three that are in limbo and that will
not affect your chances at winning the
teeny drones and that is going to happen
as as you decide to contribute to to
category five through patreon the first
100 patrons they are all going to go
into a draw and we have two teeny drones
so excited micro quadcopters to give
away those are cool you know if you and
I won them we could race well you've got
one already I've got one already so
that's true
so in race anyways well we could have
our skills just coming out of the winter
the snow melted as we get off our skills
of control here control here and get
both of them going at the same time whoa
I can't even master one I'm will good
luck you saw me I was like demonstrating
I went straight into the roof yeah so
that's you know fly outdoors maybe okay
I would idea hey I've got some net talk
do a wife duo twos to give away that
comes with the three months of
free phone calls to and from Canada and
us it doesn't matter where you live in
the world you're still able to call
Canada and us absolutely free using a
net talk duo - I'm holding a Wi-Fi so it
keeps phasing me but it's a duo - that
we're giving away this week drumroll
please Jeff can you do like a that's the
best I got folks whisky zero thank you
for sending in your ballots everybody
whisky zero you are our champion of the
week you are going to receiving a net
talk duo - all you have to do whisky
zero is send us a quick email you can
send that to me
you know my email address I guess it's a
saying just before the show you know I'm
glad but also surprised that it was
somebody that we obviously in the chat
room that's right that happened to win I
think there were 40 41 thousand ballots
Wow
so that's that's good that is good way
to go man so anyways that's gonna come
to you and we're gonna send that to you
as soon as we get your address that's
gonna give you free phone calls
that's excited can't beat it alright
we've got a lot to cover tonight I know
we've got to move on so much I mentioned
last week I carry a USB flash drive with
me all the time
yes you do what do I have this week is
it the same one no I it's it changes
shifts oh yeah and I got I brought your
Bluetooth I brought a bluetooth dongle
for you because you would mention that
you were having trouble with your
getting two controllers working yes -
PlayStation 3 controllers - that's right
retropie right so my theory was perhaps
this is just a theory and you're gonna
try it with that maybe you need to have
two Bluetooth devices to receive it
could be maybe there's it can only
connect one per Bluetooth device it's
possible I don't know I will be going
home you're gonna report back to us
right Fido
alright I have the a data UE 700 in my
pocket this is the one that I like to
carry with me this is this is my my good
one you know why can you guys see that
it's a hundred and twenty eight gigs but
it's also so that's 128 gigabytes in my
pocket okay but it's also 90mm
it's megabytes per second oh wow it's
very fast Wow
and and so this is the one that I like
to use for transfering video and stuff
right makes sense that's what I carry
around most of the time the USB so it's
USB 3 and it's super fast to read and
write I like to look at the the speeds
when I buy a USB flash drive because
it'll throw you you think you're getting
a great price I got a really great price
on a little 16 gig car oh my goodness it
was useless yes I could not copy a
single video to it it would just like
lock up and you get that spike of speed
at the beginning you get hopeful and
then all of a sudden it tapers off yeah
and it goes mmm and it takes three hours
to copy a 1 gigabyte video yeah that's
ridiculous this thing's like instant
it's like plugging in a harddrive
that that's what I like all right put
that back in my pocket I and I use that
later to transfer this this video yes to
our network so that you can watch it on
demand how do you like that that's how I
do it so I keep the cost down folks I
bring it home on a flash drive and use
my home Internet to upload it
good chives mm-hmm it's getting worse
for us blackberry users yeah yeah I did
hear about that it's I was given a z10
and I'll be honest I actually I kinda
liked it I'm surprised I do but it works
well it's zippy its responsive and I
give it gets me my podcasts you know so
it works great yeah the problem though
is that they they had a niche market and
they never capitalized on expanding past
that I think they got cocky plain and
simple I think so too
blackberry just from a marketing
perspective thing so we're all that and
so everybody's gonna stay no it doesn't
work that's not the industry anymore
might have worked ten into ten years ago
not so much but unfortunately it's a
great device but yeah I mentioned you
know we're we're it's getting worse for
us Facebook has pulled out they've said
you know what we're not going to support
blackberry anymore
kind of felt like the nail in the coffin
yeah when you get something like
Facebook saying we're done I mean
whether or not you use Facebook is kind
of not it's not the relevant factor here
what it is is that okay this is a big
company one of the biggest in the world
yeah and the deciding factor for a lot
of phone sales is going to be can I get
Facebook can I get Skype or some other
kind of right calling through the
internet can I do my Twitter can I get
my email that's right
right when that stuff gets so as soon as
it starts dying in that regard and to be
honest the is the z10 the Facebook app
already sucks it's horrible I miss
messages and and it's and that and so I
don't really care I have a phone because
if the alarm ever goes off here the
alarm company needs to be able to reach
me dry for seven so that's kind of why I
have it and I use it for my podcasts I
mentioned that it we were talking about
listening to stuff to help us sleep
ringing in the ears and stuff so that's
what I do I listen to podcasts and
things like that right and so that's
really what I use it for yeah but
unfortunately Facebook is putting the
nail in the coffin I think well I posted
a video of me singing on Good Friday
shower no in the car I was driving
around and got a good response and if
you haven't seen it yet make sure you
check it out it's on a roku channel
under bald guy singing while driving and
drinking coffee oh that's a wonderful
catch latter or you can search for that
in youtube and you'll probably find it
it's right beside cute kittens doing
funny things yeah
bald guys singing with coffee and god
yes exactly
but I did get a couple of emails and a
two or three people have said how did he
get it to sound so good
I guess you must have known my life
would be in darkness because you miss
out because I'm that's like thank you
are you are you talking about the
technology or talking about the
technology oh okay all right
so today I brought some of my kit with
me like I'm excited about this because I
have some of this at home okay I haven't
used yet so is the sjcam sj4000 so legit
original and I have the car kit as well
as the hard case so this I had hanging
off of the window upside down this whole
kit is available at camp five dot TV
slash action cam and I use this anytime
I'm out and about it's not a GoPro it
looks kind of like one it behaves like
one and it shoots video like one it's
1080p and as you can see from that video
it turns out pretty darn good and this
is the the car adapter that we sell on
our website and it's fantastic which we
bought oh did you yeah not one of those
at the same time that I bought my
Raspberry Pi oh yeah I bought you saw
this and thought oh oh I'd like to have
that well we already had the SP yeah is
it in yeah it's oh yeah yeah oh it's not
just the the car kit it's the whole
shebang it comes with yeah this is one
of the ferries that come in the bag yeah
it's like a hundred thousand things for
I couldn't believe I'm looking up like
oh you can do this this this then this
I'm like okay cool it's like five or six
things you could do open it up and I'm
like notice you and not to digress but
you'll notice this is this is from the
kit so what I've actually done here with
the car kit is I've used an attachment
I'm gonna just unscrew this and it's
actually a quarter inch standard tripod
mount yeah so I could use this also for
a DSLR or a hand camera or something
like that
I like the wide-angle when I'm driving
of the sjcam 4000 sj4000 it's a very
nice wide angle yes and it's a good
video it's great video yeah as you can
see from my singing that's right it's my
pitch stick now but you've got the
waterproof case on it this is not
waterproof case act well it is but it's
I've changed the backing on it you know
how I can tell you want to make sure you
know this because the this version has
the openings oh so it will let water in
and the reason for the outer sound yeah
it's for sound
it still muffles the sound because the
mics are on the side right but it's
gonna let a little bit of sound in and
the reason that I use that when I'm
driving around in the car doing singing
is because I am going to have to sync up
the audio video from the camera to the
audio from my mixer right so that way
you can hear it so I can hear it just
enough that I can sync things up and
line them up without having to hope that
I've got it right that's right so
usually what I do is when I start
recording I go like that and it's just a
nice quick hand clap that I can see the
visual spike in my in my editor right
then it's easier to sync up to that
spike right okay lips are at the right
time so then the audio portion the
question become you know the question is
how does it sound so good I've got the
DP 0 0 80x which is also available at
shop dot dot TV not to make the show
sound like an advertisement but I like
to promote the stuff that that I use and
and the stuff that I really like make
sense if it's good enough you for you
exactly I do as I sit here with my with
my House of Marley headphones I'm
surrounded in kit that we sell it does
kind of start to sound like an
infomercial send money today
and sure I mean whatever right but
that's not the intent but it is kind of
funny oh yeah and by the way these mugs
are in our store
oh I had to say that so I could pick it
up oh that's funny alright so you've got
the sjcam and you've got the sound of
the word now what are you using to
record your audio this is the ingenious
thing ok so this this device here which
is the DP 0 0 8 e ex from task cam and
this is a this is in our store if you
want the links which pipes you screwed
Amazon so I have a headphone jack here
okay the headphone jack I put that now
I've got a line input on since I put in
a nice stereo in the in the van right so
I've got an old van with a nice stereo
that I picked up at a factory a factory
direct it's like a liquidation store
yeah so it has a line input now I could
have used in the old stereo I could have
used the cassette adapter right but this
one I just have a 2.5 was it three point
yeah 2.5 millimeter
okay the headphone jack that goes out to
the the line input okay so that way when
I push play
so I've recorded the tracks into lines 1
and 2 and the channels 1 &amp; 2 track 1 &amp; 2
using my laptop so I just plugged in the
laptop to the line input over here
mm-hmm pressed record to get the karaoke
track and then while I'm driving around
so I key i cue in let's fire this thing
up so that you can actually see so the
headphone jack is going into the stereo
so that I can hear the music over the
car stereo right I've got this
microphone on my face this thing somehow
miraculously is able to power a 48 volt
phantom microphone even though it only
takes a couple of double-a batteries
okay for for double A batteries so I
push so I leave these ones marked out I
mark line three track three for
recording and then I can set my input
level plug my microphone into the XLR
input so line three would be in channel
a line track four would be input B and
then vice and so on and so forth so if I
wanted to record on track for I would
plug the microphone into B channel
because it works as a be a be a be a be
kind of idea so I recorded to the track
push record and play because I'm not
recording on these so it plays these two
tracks at the speakers okay I can set
one two left and one two right so I have
the stereo tracks right and then I
turned down the level on my microphone
because that's not a record level that's
a playback level so that my microphone
is not coming out of the speakers makes
sense so I can just sing my heart out
but it does record because the input is
specified and I can try up the master to
set the levels I can see the vu over
here right so see if I punch in right
now oh I don't have an SD card so I
can't so so then I'm recording right off
my face and so I get a nice clean
recording if the microphone and then
it's really easy because it's so close
to my mouth to suppress the music that
you hear coming out of the car stereo
right and just use the tracks and then
you mix it all in it's got nice reverb
and you can you know turn up the reverb
on the the microphone track play it back
into the computer or just render it down
to a master file and and then you're
good to go very nice yeah these things
these things work great it's eight
tracks you can only record two tracks at
a time okay but you can record two
tracks at a time so if you play guitar
and sing you can play guitar and sing
and record them to two separate tracks
so that you can really you can mix them
later that's cool and then you can go
back and record a lead guitar part and a
harmony part at the same time if you
wanted to and then you've got four
tracks done and you can do that up to
eight tracks that's a fantastic in that
nice
that's so scintillant and little too so
it's kind of meant for the musician Enya
but it also works really well I use this
when I'm shooting in the field yep
sometimes I want to record several
tracks and be able to mix them later and
and kind of intermix and change the mix
the nice thing is because it's on
separate tracks if I have two
microphones say you and I were doing an
event live I can do both of us on a
different track and then later I can fix
the levels and say oh Jeff was a little
loud so I can turn Jeff down a little
bit
awesome well for that so if you're a
video editor or anything that's a good
device for that as well
little tricky to get used to I found if
you're you know if you're not used to
having to punch in channels and stuff
sometimes you you might forget to punch
the the record button to specify ham
recording on track three I want to be
careful of that no I'm just seeing on
the end there are their mics built into
that as well yeah there are and there
are actually really really good quality
so these are nice for and because of the
positioning I don't know if you notice
but they almost almost not quite but
almost give a sense of binaural audio
right which means when you put on
headphones it sounds like you're in the
room because these are positioned
approximately where your human ears are
the distance between those two
microphones are about the same as right
human hair so it but they do sound
really really good I have I don't tend
to use them because
I don't record a lot of ambient audio
right everything that I record is gonna
be up close and personal or but if if
you were doing a nice acoustic set
though and you want to go yeah
well or picking up your guitars and
stuff yeah that works too yeah like if
you were sitting around and someone's
playing on the bongos and you're playing
guitar you get two tracks stereo and are
able to record both tracks at once
and then go back and add some harmonies
and yeah sure thicken up the mix add
some drums or whatever you want to do
wow it's pretty decent look pretty much
thought of everything it's the best
portable devices
does it make you breakfast it doesn't
make me breakfast the only downfall all
right so they didn't quite think of
everything I know it's a scam come on
pick it up
all right let's look at CH Apolo which
we looked at last week sorry I'm gonna
have to lose part of my wardrobe I know
don't let me forget those I won't get
those done you forget them I will
remember that okay chip oh oh we looked
at this last week this that's pretty
neat it it should still be synced
because it the battery lasts for kind of
forever six to a year kind of idea
following last week's show did a little
more research spoke with our repet Apolo
to find out a little bit more what did
we find here well we were corrected by
one person Oh what viewer that's right
yeah so it was it was c128 d oh yeah he
was watching on YouTube or not she sorry
whoever might be and corrected you about
the bios of the computer using a CR
twenty thirty two battery not a cr2025
right now Polo uses a twenty twenty-five
yeah I said I said off-the-cuff hey if
you put that in your CMOS as kind of a
joke right but no it's a cr2032
right that's right because these are a
little bit thinner like point seven
millimeters and they have a slightly
different megahertz milliampere milliamp
sorry yeah the rating so the amount of
power in this battery is a little bit
less than the twenty thirty five right
because that's one hundred and sixty
five million is yeah but the one for the
ursery that ones to twenty five millions
but the Chipola
165 milliamps so okay so the Chipola
battery is a little bit less power than
what you need then I'd receive 35 okay
so I guess in a bind you could take the
battery out of your chip hole oh yeah
it's an emergency my CMOS is busted and
it won't keep the date yeah and I don't
have a CR twenty thirty five and access
to a dollar store that's right there you
go
so in a bind you could use the twenty
twenty five but not really that's right
it's not the correct battery right it's
like using a triple-a battery with a
little bit of aluminum foil but it's not
quite right yeah yeah so what else about
the Tripoli did we find out okay so when
this is a good one when you have gone
out of Bluetooth range yep from your
Chipola so here's the scenario and this
was the question last week that you
posed what happens if you get out of
range and I'm you know humming in ha I
don't really know so I looked it up okay
and spoke with them about it okay so
here's the scenario you put it on your
key ring yep right keys are not gonna
really get up and walk away they're
generally if you leave them somewhere
they're gonna be there when you go to
look for them
so I put my keys down they fall between
the seat cushions I forget to pick them
up again and I go home they're at your
place okay right I am now outside of
Bluetooth range but the app remembers
the last time it saw it okay so now when
I bring up my Chipola even though I am
my Chipola app even though I am six
kilometers away and out of range it says
here's the pin this is where it was last
time I saw it
okay so then I see oh that's Jeff's
place I can head back to your place and
get my keys right or say hey can you
check I think I left them on your couch
right not sure how I left the house
without my keys I'm just that scenario
you rode works but doesn't I rode my
bike there you go cuz it's sunny outside
that's right except for this workout
pending polar vortex yeah you know so
that's kind of cool actually that's
really cool yes it is so one of the
other things so I fired up the the
device this morning and the first thing
that I saw was a new little notice here
because I left this iPod Touch running
throughout the week okay since we had it
up and going last week it says Cho Polo
has been using your location in the
background do you want to continue
allowing this oh okay right so it is
kind of it's polling so I'm gonna say
continue yep oh I've got a software
update nice okay so then let's bring up
my chapo' Lo and we'll see that it is
close at hand I can still work and just
like so there's no turning it on or
turning it off or anything like that
that's kind of cool okay what else did
we learn this week um what if your CH
Apolo is lost oh right yeah they told me
about this okay so scenario would be say
you lose your Chipola but you don't I
don't know you can't seem to find it
where it was last was say you put it on
your dog and your dog ran away it
doesn't work for last-known location so
what happens then I don't know that
you'd want to put it on your dog and
this kind of is another point I said
yeah you know what probably not a good
idea to use Chipola to track your
children right we kind of joked about
that but not a good idea because they
are in motion they're not like your keys
that when you drop them they're still
there
right but say somebody did and you're
sure polos lost you it's not where you
last had it here's it can I use a
different scenario okay I'm walking
through the park my keys fall out of my
pocket okay my keys have my polo on it
just to throw that on there or haitch
Apolo is pretty small I could fit this
in my wallet yep stick this into one of
the sleeves that are for credit cards
yep and then
if I ever lose my wallet okay so I've
I've dropped my wallet
okay it fell out of my jacket pocket cuz
I just switched to my spring jacket and
I'm not used to the pockets right that's
my scenario I elaborate right what if
somebody walks away well better yet I
can now mark my polo as lost okay in the
app and by doing so anybody who is
within range of my wallet who uses
Chipola on their mobile device their
device will go out looking for mine
really yes so then if so let's say you
have a Chipola as well and I and you and
I were going for a walk together a bike
ride yeah I dropped my wallet and and
now I've gone home yeah you are then
biking back and you're passing my wallet
you don't see it but it's there and your
phone then says oh there's Robbie's
Chipola and it sends a message to me oh
so it didn't fire it doesn't tell your
app your app then sends a message to
mine and says there it is it's on a map
here's the pin you never even knew that
it happened okay so it's like a cloud of
clothes so so then my app now says oh
it's it's way over there so even though
I am well out of range of the Chipola
your phone is not and so your phone has
now told me where my Chipola is located
ah okay how cool is that that's fit now
obviously they'd have to have their
Bluetooth on to pick up yeah but yeah
yeah yeah of course but you're you're
but you're you obviously have your
Bluetooth it's obviously well played
that's awesome so and it's just looking
for the signal because you don't have to
sync up because like my phone wouldn't
know while I'm going through the park
right it's just as soon as my app gets a
pain I've marked a torture pole that's
lost so they thought they'd thought of
it they've figured it out they've got it
nailed great device that's I love it
I think it's really really cool so
that's cool I'm gonna I got to decide
I've got one of them I
decide if it goes on my keys or on my
wallet or on my remote control at home
or just get three there you go out all I
have like 12 remotes
well it's brutal you know you could
support cat 5 3 Amazon there yeah
Tupelo is actually in our store cat 5
dot TV / chip polo that's awesome I like
that I do too you know right and it's
funny because when we first reviewed
that last week we had this small issue
of connecting and I was like I was the
laptop yeah it was a laptop so I was
really disappointed but now at like
getting a second review of this like it
worked well after we figured the laptop
I'm excited about you know this is one
of the things I like about this show and
being on this show is that we can we can
try stuff having never tried it before
that's right and as long as you viewers
understand that we do that on purpose
because I want to present the you know I
don't want to present it as oh I've
already figured everything out so I'm
just gonna show you how I do it
yeah no I want to go through the same
trouble that you're gonna go through and
then that way if you go through it
you've got the solution yes that's the
idea it's good you have a lot of fun
okay so that's that we're gonna jump
right into the news Jeff yes so with the
magic of television
kapu f-- okay it's Tuesday April 5th
2016 and hear the stories we're covering
this week Union Memorial Hospital is the
epicenter of a malware attack yes
another one this one with a ransom being
held for an $18,500 Windows 10 is gonna
be having some form of ubuntu in it and
Instagram plans to switch to algorithmic
timelines and that has some users
worried Google decided to play an April
Fool's prank and a backfired and Tay the
a I bought from Microsoft's not back
online and that took another go at
Twitter users these stores are coming
right up so don't go anywhere
hi I'm Robbie Ferguson and I love being
a Vimeo Pro member as a web broadcaster
I need an affordable video hosting
platform that the
flexible as me a pro membership lets you
upload up to 20 gigabytes of HD video
each and every week with no additional
bandwidth restrictions that means if you
produce a show that uses even up to 20
gigabytes of storage your limit resets
itself the following week so you can do
another 20 gigabytes and keep doing that
week after week now category 5 with all
of our shows use roughly 10 gigabytes
per week from there
Vimeo automatically generates all the
files that you need to provision your
RSS feeds and roku channel website media
player or even video downloads in
multiple bit rates with no limits on
your bandwidth usage or how many people
can access your files what's best
the price is astonishingly affordable
and for a limited time Friends of the
category 5 dot TV network will receive a
whopping 25 percent off the annual price
all you have to do is go through our
link cap 5 dot TV slash Vimeo and sign
up today for your twenty five percent
discount to top it off you get 30 days
to try it risk-free if you're not happy
with Vimeo Pro you pay nothing the deal
is only for a very limited time go to
cap 5 dot TV slash Vimeo I'm Jeff Weston
and here the top stories from the
category 5 TV newsroom Baltimore's Union
Memorial Hospital is the epicenter of a
malware attack upon its parent
organization MedStar data
Union Memorial and other MedStar
hospitals in Maryland have been
encrypted by ransomware spread across
their network and the operators of the
malware are offering a bulk deal 45
bitcoins which is about eighteen and a
half thousand dollars us for the keys to
unlock all the affected systems the FBI
is issued a confidential urgent flash
message to the industry about the threat
of Sam Sam on March 25th seeking
assistance in fighting the ransomware
and pleading we need your help
the FBI is cyber center also shared
signature data for Sam Sam activity to
help organize an organization's screen
for infections but the number of
potential targets remains vast and the
FBI is concerned that entire networks
could fall victim to the ransomware an
internet scanned by Cisco's Tallis
research revealed approximately two
point 1 million systems are vulnerable
to the exploit used in the attack that's
crazy
it's scary point 1 million systems
ransomware is becoming the the way of
making money yeah or if you're shady
yeah and you know you used to be like at
sea pirates and then you know it just
could progress it's like I can't think
of what could be more invasive than
locking out all of your data oh my
goodness and if you haven't seen it yet
you should get onto our website and
watch do a quick search for cryptolocker
I had a guest on the show from
Malwarebytes and we had an in-depth
conversation when cryptolocker first
came out about what it is but
essentially this thing gets into your
computer right now right now this week
we've seen a spike yeah because I work
in security I am actually in an ESET
than a vendor of record and I'm all that
but so what I've learned is that this
thing is on the rise
javascript is being sent by email in a
zip file the JavaScript is benign
so the antivirus product doesn't
necessarily pick it up right then it
executes and it grabs this crypto
ransomware off of the web so you don't
ever know what happened
and suddenly all of your files are
encrypted with a key that you don't have
you have to pay in order to decrypt your
files including your PST file if you use
outlook which means you have no access
to your email your calendar your
appointments your contacts everything
plus all your documents all your Excel
spreadsheets all that stuff but here's
the scary thing if you are connected to
a corporate network yep one computer
gets infected it goes out on all of them
and locks up all the files servers that
have partition that's shared or not a
partition like a Samba or CIFS share so
that people can mount a company shared
folder Wow where they save all their
accounting data yeah that's the one
person gets it and it's scary and often
companies have one computer somewhere in
the office that they think oh well we
don't need antivirus on that one because
we only use it to print labels right
guess what you just down opened an email
with that crypto ransomware you're in
trouble man skirts alright
Microsoft and canonical are according to
a reliable rumor out of ZDNet working
together to bring Ubuntu to Windows 10
desktops now both of them will not be
integrating Linux per se into Windows
nor will it be a virtual machine instead
Ubuntu will primarily run on a
foundation of NATO native windows
libraries it's also possible to use some
familiar Linux command line tools in
Windows including bash through projects
like cygwin so how you pronounce it
that's how I pronounce it ok perfect
it's unlikely that eww what the Ubuntu
interface itself will be part of the
experience and given that the work is
set to be unveiled by a developer at a
developer conference it's most likely to
be a means of window developers to build
and test their apps compatibility with
Linux now we know little about what's
planned it could be that a simple UNIX
command-line tools are made available in
Microsoft's command prompt tool or it
could open floodgates for Linux binaries
running natively on Windows who knows
but when we find out more information
we'll be sure to let you know it's kind
of exciting a little bit I feel honoured
bound to the to mention the
asked how to pronounce cygwin but not
how to pronounce canonical or Ubuntu
I've you know what some I call you on
those two that's fair
you know it's funny I I've always called
it Ubuntu from the big yeah no because
you and I were experimenting with Linux
at about the same time and we thought it
was called Ubuntu yes yeah so at this
point I've learned the potato version of
potato and good luck changing that yeah
it's tough yeah I had to retrain myself
on that one yeah
canonical how Instagram contact will
appear in the apps feed have sparked a
backlash among some of its users the app
plans to switch to algorithmic timelines
which sorts posts according to user's
interests rather than continuing to list
them chronologically now celebrity
pollsters who are worried about that
their photos will no longer be seen by
as many people have urged their
followers to turn on notifications but
Instagram said there's no reason to
panic
it's okay chill they said in a tweet
we're listening and we assure you that
nothing is changing with your feed right
now as somebody who deals with legal
work and I hear right now haha yeah okay
the shift will bring the app in line
with the way that news feeds are ordered
on Facebook which is owned by the same
company so I can appreciate the
frustration that Instagram would have
this I'm not an Instagram user and not I
just I haven't gotten into that but with
Facebook it drives me nuts um when I
can't see the most recent information
because somebody commented on something
from two days ago because they're just
getting on Facebook now and all of the
information that you want to see is you
know 50 feets below I
I personally don't I don't like that so
I can see why the end it makes
assumptions and when you're scrolling
down the timeline and this is Facebook
and oh well yeah I know that you want to
see this so you see the post once and
then you're scrolling and you see it
again yes and you see it again and it
stopped yeah
you're mad so every time everyone
commented I see another of the exact
same post
like I don't need that kitten meme yeah
I liked one kitten meme now they think I
need them that's right yeah it's to be
fair it was a really cute kid I could
appreciate where the Instagram users are
coming from quite frankly I would side
with them on this one because I don't
like the way facebook does their feed so
Facebook allows you to select a
traditional timeline sort of by time but
if yeah it doesn't seem to remember that
I selected that well I Graham do the
same do you know why Facebook does that
because they like to control your mind
sort of okay so I realized I'm
digressing from the news a little bit I
used to work in the prison system and
when I was on Facebook do you mean you
used to live in the prison system well I
did a seven-year oh you used to my work
I used to work right yeah I was employed
by the prison system so what happened is
I mean when you're dealing with that
kind of clients on the side of the when
you deal with that kind of clientele you
you don't want your life to be out there
on Facebook for searching
so I'd lock down my account okay and
then one day I get a message from one of
our clients he's like hey look Jeff
Buchanan and it's in Facebook's User
Agreement when you sign up that nobody
ever reads anyway is that when they
update their security settings they wipe
out all your settings and it's up to you
to go back and reactivate the settings
that you want activate is this real life
this is I'm telling you this is what
happens so I because I contacted
Facebook I'm like what have you done and
they're like I'll read our User
Agreement when we do an update we wipe
out everything I've tested it three
times now whenever I get the notice that
oh we've updated our security settings
all my settings are gone
so I have to hurry I have to go back in
and reset up see and Facebook changed
the way internet was done because it
used to be unless you give express
permission nothing can be shared
Facebook changed that and it's changed
the face of the internet so that's now
we can share whatever except for what
you tell us not to and now that's what
companies are doing so because of this
opt-in unless opt out that's right
Facebook changed that and so that's why
things like this as far as the the
chronological that's their default right
so you have to opt in to the so changes
there yeah so there you go
did I just a Jimmy Kate you on something
you freaked me out I want to log into
Facebook and change all my settings you
should yeah if anybody hasn't you need
to and I learnt the hard way yeah the
last thing I want is that kind of stuff
coming up and thanks for creeping us out
yeah okay back to the news Google is
acknowledging that it after it pranked
its heard that it pranked itself after
an April Fool's Day Gmail tweak angered
some people who used Google's email for
work so what happened is the company
added a button to its email service that
allowed users to fire out a minion gif
which is a character from the animated
film Despicable Me loved that movie by
the way which would drop a microphone
and then mute responses to whatever
email the user sent so the Google Health
Forum on Thursday was populated with a
bunch of angry users who say that they
unintentionally attached a minion
dropping a mic during important business
communications you know we appreciate
your services but we're cancelling your
contract apologize they turned off the
feature seeing that due to a bug the mic
drop inadvertently caused more headaches
than last I don't know about you I'm
laughing so I think it's I heard a one
guy that was in community in in
negotiations with a potential employer
and did a mic drop and was so concerned
that they were not gonna get the job
because of it and I'm like dude if that
is your concern you don't need to work
for this because if I was hiring and
someone accidentally sent me a mic drop
I would seriously laugh and if your
potential employer can't laugh at that
and say oh my gosh unless you're like
like when is that not funny I agree so
if you try to plan for a job and you
lost it because the mic drop
send the employer potential employer
like one for this news yeah and how many
people got dumped oh my god
I didn't even think of that I just need
space no no I just meant I wanted to go
away for the weekend oh this story just
gets better we could come up with some
scenarios okay all right move it to
another type of mic drop
after almost a week of being shut down
for spewing racist and sexist comments
on Twitter Microsoft's artificial
intelligence chat pot called Tay briefly
rejoined Twitter on Wednesday open to
launch a spam attack on its followers
the incident marks another embarrassing
setback for the software company as it
tries to get ahead of alphabet inks
Google Facebook Inc and other tech firms
in a race to create virtual agents that
can interact with people and learn from
them the Tay tweets which on Twitter is
at Tay and you that's a nd Twitter
handle was made private in the chat bot
stopped responding to comments Wednesday
morning after fired off the same tweet
to many users you're too fast please
take a rest tweeted Tay to hundreds of
Twitter profiles the chat bot also
tweaked that it's smoking cush in front
of the police Microsoft said on
Wednesday that taze Twitter account was
accidentally turned back on while the
company was fixing the problems that
came to light two weeks ago holy cow
that I only failed Microsoft oh yeah one
of the other things I loved is that
taste started tweeting back to herself
no I've got in a Twitter battle with
herself
oh hello yeah so it was like we made it
this is history in the making folks we
made an a I bought that tweeted it's
smoking cush in front of police in front
of police yep good ol Microsoft
what have you done yeah these are the
people we're trusting with our future of
technology yeah or are we yeah and
they're the ones that are monitoring
everything you do with Windows 10 yeah
you're using AI to parse what you desire
that's right they can't get Twitter
right but apparently they can get the OS
right
let's hope Facebook does a better job
mini mic drop there you go
everything flowed together big thanks
this week to write of your natural air
community of yours for submitting
stories to us if you found a news story
you'd like to send email the newsroom at
category five TV for all your tech news
with a slight linux bias as a category 5
TV newsroom at newsroom category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV newsroom I'm Jeff
Weston welcome back this is category 5
technology TV I'm your host Ravi
Ferguson and I'm Jeff Weston Jeff we had
planned to get into this the data
traveler yes with ESET and and this is a
really cool device I want to show it to
you it encrypts the data that you put on
it so that it's safe from prying eyes
but also it has antivirus so if you're
connecting it to a Windows system it
will make sure that that crypto
ransomware doesn't get on there perfect
as you're copying files to and fro
unfortunately our timing tonight is is
getting a little tight so we're gonna
look at that instead next week if you're
really keen on getting something like
this head on over to cap 5 dot TV slash
vault to get one in advance but we're
gonna look at that next week instead and
get that on the show Sasha dramatis is
going to be here next week so this will
be a fun thing for us to do in the
meantime you had mentioned that we're
gonna look at downloading YouTube videos
yes I guess the reason for that is
because and this is on Windows yes we
don't do a whole lot of Windows here
because we hate it or Twitter yeah I'm
kidding I'm just a chatbot whose views
madness that's right smoking the
questions being a racist come on Mike
okay well the reason is yeah on episode
number 430 I showed how to download
YouTube videos on Linux okay via a Linux
command line tool windows users few
people had emailed us and said well how
do I do it on Windows right so I wanted
to show you two real easy ways to do it
and my favorite person just arrived oh
my goodness somebody just walked in the
door here Sasha's
scenes it's actually we're just about to
show the people how to download YouTube
videos so hey you're just in time
yeah are you are you camera bombing
she's hey buddy
how are you I'm great
good so they're gonna be all next week
yes yes yes awesome wonderful two weeks
in a row flashes here because mine test
dot TV we're releasing a new version of
our video game server
yes it's called extreme PvP survival and
up so we're all gonna be doing some
voiceovers for the game and that's
happening today as we wrap up tonight
we're gonna be stepping into video game
voice-over mode love it so everybody's
got the voice on yes yes game on
how's that that's why Jeff is gonna do
okay so let's you've got the only window
system in the place okay so you're gonna
you're gonna head on over to YouTube
yeah to youtube.com so I was saying
viewers before Sasha
camera bombed us here viewers decided to
I don't know if you want to go into
trending and find something that's
that's decent I don't know anything at
all
viewers said how can we do this on
Windows how to do it Taylor Swift versus
a treadmill oh we're gonna get in big
trouble if we don't if we do show you
how to download Taylor Swift she
personally will sue us can you head to
go to Linux tech show Linux tech show
okay oh there you go look at that there
you go these ones I guarantee you we
have the rights to you're not gonna see
yourself I will not sue myself in fact I
will pay myself oh my goodness how do
you like that so just pick any video
streaming your Linux desktop to
Telestream just I'm gonna show you two
ways to do this on Microsoft Windows
okay I don't know if there's audio there
or not probably so all we need is that
see that URL up at the top there ww
youtube.com now yes so where it says WWE
youtube yeah
change it to wws s no no just ad SS
right there
yeah just put SS and ever notice what we
did there all we did is press SS oh and
now it's connecting to YouTube and there
you go there's your download so choose
the pulldown there and see what what
options you have so mp4 and a couple of
different options but the one that I'm
missing there is mp3 I might want just
now there is the audio mp4 like an m4
ace that's a HD mp3 but that will not
actually that's not actually a download
link that's going to take you to our
next product that we're gonna show you
so the download itself on the left there
will allow you to download the video in
HD or any of the format's that are
available on YouTube that's a really
really easy cheap and dirty way to do it
so if you're you know you're you're
about to do a presentation and and the
Internet is finicky and oh no I really
need to have this video as part of my
presentation just go to the youtube link
at SS before YouTube so it reads w WS s
youtube.com right so somebody's
registered say Front has registered that
name and it just is a really great way
to do it okay
okay next way much more robust much more
able to work with all videos and
everything YouTube if you head on over
to video downloader dot uh me see if you
can spell that not not you me uh me um
my yeah but don't use that because now
you've just changed it to video space
downloader oh there we go
just type em my dot net so video
downloader dot uh me dotnet and we've
already installed this application so
you don't need to do it Jeff okay but
that tool there is going to give you a
really great way to download all things
YouTube on Microsoft Windows so Jeff go
back to YouTube find that video and even
just use your back button and find that
video that we're gonna download which we
have the rights to and with uh me video
downloader what I want you to do is copy
that entire URL to your
bored okay now on your Start menu on
Windows once now that we've got any
installed so if you click there and just
type unnie I'm your video downloader no
nope oh maybe yeah okay that's good so
now that it's in my clipboard but I
wouldn't do that if you could close that
Jeff I don't want to show an incorrect
way to do it because that just is that's
my recently run applications so viewers
will not see it that way I'd rather you
type on em there you go
okay so type dummy into the end of the
search click on it and because it's in
our clipboard it automatically generates
the links okay and now pull the pull
down that menu there and you'll see that
you have not only all the formats that
are available but also mp3 if you want
just the audio tracks awesome so for
example you really liked my Easter
presentation yeah and you want to
download it as an mp3 there's your way I
give you permission that's exciting so
there you have it so there's a couple
ways for you to download video really
simu tube yeah that's it you know keep
it keep it simple stupid
nice I'm the stupid so there you have it
folks we are completely out of time I
can't believe it wow we're ready to jump
into video game mode so check out mine
test dot TV I assume the new server will
be ready we're recording tonight so
we'll probably have it up and running
within a couple weeks I'm excited about
it it's gonna be exciting I think it's
gonna be fun for the kids to go in and
hear absolutely your dad's voice and oh
sure the voice-over work that we're
gonna have in the game do you remember
the old Lara Croft series
might I have the old lower-cost idea I
still on retropie no and I have it on
retropie I have the actual CD still nice
I have played it enough to remember yes
I've got all my CD actually I was going
through a box the other day I've got
stuff going back 20 years of video games
all on CD discs I've got a new floppy
disk of a packrat of a game called you
need to run 800 got junk you know what
it is go through our partner link it's
the nostalgia everyone I'll throw Dino
I'm on my computer I'm like oh I miss
lemmings or oh well I have that I miss
Commander Keen I have lemmings ROM for
I've got it on my retro spy Playstation
one yeah I've got it on the record part
okay fantastic so you're set the reason
I mentioned Lara Croft yes the Tomb
Raider series when you first start the
game the chronicles for example yes she
is talking and telling you how to
control the game so no jump by pressing
the X button yes you know and all this
kind of stuff so with the extreme
survival server Sasha is going to be
that voice she's not gonna have the the
access sasha is Laura Croft but Sasha
terminus is going to be the voice of the
narrative that is teaching the player
how to how to play the game that's also
so when you first start the game it
takes you through the tutorials you can
skip them if you want but it will help
you to understand the the initial
controls because we're really going all
out with this extreme PvP survival at
mine test dot TV so the moral of story
stop sasha is gonna be telling you what
to do and you're gonna do it yeah
spacebar to jump like like you know just
did i do what's a tells me your husband
play the game you'd be like hey look
just do what I tell you to do you say
okay yeah that's all the time we got
folks don't forget make sure you check
out our patreon page patreon.com/lenguin
and we thank you for it so have a
fantastic week Jeff it's been fun having
you then the past couple weeks Sasha
gonna be fun to have you on the show for
the next couple of weeks
and we will see you next Tuesday night
all right good night
