hey this week we are looking at the cake
ASB 7-inch Raspberry Pi screen case yes
it's like a big long name but basically
we've looked at a cake ASB case before
that has the 13 inch screen yes that
thing is fantastic but I need something
a little more portable a little more
like fit in your bag and take it with
you wherever you go kind of thing okay
we're all fans of Raspberry Pi here
micro computing and KSP makes some of
the greatest cases so let's get right
into it I'm just gonna jump right down
here I've got everything I need yeah yup
my trusty Raspberry Pi 3b plus I've got
a can of cat 2.5 amp power supply for
the Raspberry Pi and we've got the case
this is from KK SP you can get one at
cap five dot TV slash pie but this is
not an advertisement this is not late
night television to try to sell you
something I want to show you but I want
to make sure that you have access to it
at the same time so let's get into the
box and let's see the unboxing here
we're not unboxing at the unboxing you
know what I'm just gonna do it right
here Jeff goodness oh wow okay we've got
a lint-free cloth for wiping it down
we've got the manual for a screen so
this is of course like the last one it's
a capacitive touch screen and this one
is just a lot more like tiny oh but at
the same time it's got the same quality
that you expect from kks be this is a
let's see here oh it's like stuck to the
tape there we go it works this is a
laser-cut powder-coated high-grade steel
case this looks amazing
very nice right so professional there
you go
these are some of the best cases as far
as the ruggedness and the quality they
are just fantastic the screen is 1024 by
600 it is touchscreen and and it
actually is going to well it's going to
connect to a Raspberry Pi right here so
perfect let's see what else is in the
box and then let's
about what it takes to get this thing
set up so we've got cables here very
important very important hmm a nice
short HDMI cable to connect the screen
which is nice because it rather than
having a big long length that you've got
a wrap up comes with that one
we've got USB which I don't see a power
cord for this particular screen so I
imagine that the USB is going to not
only provide the touch screen
capabilities but also the power to the
seven-inch screen of Salomon and then
we've got some screws they're always fun
but not a little bit there and an allen
key and I'm sure my name and we've got
the the actual stand as well for nice
for a level surface okay so let's get
into this guy right here so we've got
that's not the one let's see we've got
an allen key right here I'd like you to
meet my friend Alan now let's pull this
thing apart
all right so with this be easier than
building IKEA furniture so far
definitely yes I kind of like that it
doesn't come in pieces mm-hmm it comes
assembled so I can see exactly how it's
gonna go back together Henry okay I'd
like to point out nobody's read the
manual yet was there a manual well the
manuals for the screen thing how
difficult is it good what is the screen
manual tells on the back note you need
to first connect the USB cable before
the HDMI cable otherwise the backlight
may cannot turn on maybe not so that's
for the screen itself
yes but had you've done it the other way
you would have been like oh it doesn't
work we're in Jeff we've got a couple of
standoffs here just pulling those off
with my fingers wow the big motion this
is impressive oh yeah yes
I will believe you there Jeff will
translate our manual for us there we are
okay let's get into our Raspberry Pi 3
B+ all right fresh out of the box fresh
out of the box nice come on now
there we are all right and that is gonna
go right in there just like we expect
from k KS B it is just that a beautiful
perfect fit standoffs are gonna go back
on I have no clue what potente o meter
is potentiometer oh now we know close
that does not look like that at all
did you leaders and apparently there's
ghost problems oh don't ghost me are you
gonna call there we are
well if it's in there nice quite nicely
oh yeah
now obviously this won't work for a
Raspberry Pi with the fam you'd have to
use the heatsink now why do you think
that Jeff you said obviously so I want
to know what makes it seem obvious well
it's a metal case and it doesn't have
the hole for the fan my dear friend how
where does the fan connector that's how
do you mean power no no where are you
gonna put the fan in so to screw it in
yeah well this goes on top yeah I will
have you nice little fan yeah you could
but when you do couldn't you just have
one that is built into the heatsink I
would I think it's still meant for the
for the heatsink I don't know okay like
I'm trying to think my Raspberry Pi at
home with a fan I don't think the fan
would fit because it's one that you
screw into it yeah case
oh yeah that's a little different in
that case Jeff what I would do if you
wanted to put a fan on here yeah is that
we just put a little bit of 3m
double-sided tape on the fan just around
the edge of the fan and then you can
actually stick the fan on here that's
gonna hold it nice and snug
if you don't have double sided tape a
little bit of hot glue that'll hold it
there yep that works fair enough
alright so let's all right put the case
back on there we are we've got the
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ in its place
there we are
line that up looking professional oh
yeah say welcome back to Linden was in
the chat real in then very long time
yeah good to have you back dude alright
put those screws in this is some
exciting TV right here I can almost just
tell you wow the screws to hold this all
together we don't necessarily have to
put them together
live on the air but I can you you you
pay attention to those small details
those little details details riveting
nature of cat5 it is look at those
screws beep look at that folks
tentative because we're live I can't
even speed it up you know there we are
and you just kind of feel your way with
these big long screws right and get that
I just feel so excited we go about all
the potential uses for this yeah you
know with this I mean as I'm looking at
it my first thought is a photo frame you
don't want to be perfect for that but a
smart photo frame yeah how about that
something that connects to a server and
grabs your photos from the server
yeah and rotates through them or could
you even write a scrip for the PI to
pull it from say like your Facebook or
Instagram sure yeah and that way as you
go live with new photos they update
instantly you can have it searched
through your photos for certain tags
yeah in the descriptions see that would
work for safe it's all there is to up
for odd maybe like an elderly parent or
grandparent that doesn't have facebook
that wants to get constant updates
photos so the thing to remember with
this job is it is a full Linux computer
that is true so nothing to it it's it's
literally Linux so and it's a computer
it's not just a screen anything yeah all
right
so then finally we've got this guy on
the back just gonna screw that together
okay her small business or something you
set up a kiosk or looks I like that idea
if you just want like a little tablet
you're on that's right it could be so
many things what I do like is that it
has the screw holes on the base mount as
well so that you can secure it mm-hmm
you know depending on what you're using
it for it's not going to move around so
what Jeff is talking about as I sew
sophisticatedly put this together for
you I mean I'm doing this kind of on the
side as the guys are talking so I mean
you can imagine it's not very difficult
to assemble right I'm doing my thing
what Jeff's talking about is if you were
to use this in a business environment or
a school environment you don't want
someone walking off with it and it
actually has screw holes so we've got
three screw holes we can actually mount
this on the counter in such a way that
nobody can walk off with it there you go
Yeti wizard asks how is this display
different than the stock pie display so
if you get the stock pie display or
anything else is it capacitive touch
this screen is I mean this is the the
wave share touch screen so we know the
wave share makes some excellent screens
I'm not going to I've got two more
screws to put in but I just want to kind
of expedite things it's solid so but
what we're looking at here is yeah this
guy all right so we've got USB for power
and that's gonna go in here that also
gives us the touch capability now did
you do it in proper fashion
well I plugged it in first Jeff didn't
use me before the HDMI you did it
doesn't matter excellent doesn't matter
power explodes in my hands all this left
is the little stand that's awesome here
we go all right so some would look at
this and say okay that's a little bit
janky because you've got these cables
sticking out the side right yeah there's
something that I love about that it'll
work with any SBC that you can connect
to it better so keep in mind if you want
to do Raspberry Pi 3 B+ like I'm doing
here today it's gonna work perfectly but
what if you want to go with like a
Anasuya
tinker board which is gonna fit this
case to cool that's right yeah you're
not limited to the I oh yeah you're not
limited to the capabilities of a
particular proprietary cable that only
works on Raspberry Pi right so there you
have it that's all there is to assembly
now in the instructions there is a
little bit of code that you need to add
to raspbian there's a config that you
need to add it's right here so you just
open up the file the on your boot
partition and add four lines of code in
nope at five
yeah five yes instructions right there
yep there it is so hold on to that
because you will need the instructions
to add that little bit of code and all
that does is it sets the resolution to
1024 by 600 it sets it to HDMI mode 87
and it and it sets the position of the
screen and the overscan so that you
don't have black borders around on the
screen okay
but more importantly it forces you to
read the manual there's five lines the
five lines in the manual that's all you
need but make sure you plug in the USB
first otherwise as Henry explained it
will explode these are the KSP seven
inch screen cases I can't really give
you the impression that I have of it
other than like this is rugged this
feels I mean this is professional it
looks professional it's much more solid
it's not there's no plastic seen here
the cables you can tuck them in as best
you can but you can also just get like
an L connector right like an L yeah you
could do that minimize it I don't mind
the cables because I like the fact that
I can use this for anything and you can
in fact because this full-sized HDMI
unplug the Raspberry Pi and use this as
a screen for any HDMI device and then
plug it back in again and you're back to
using it as a Raspberry Pi nice so it is
not compatible with the Raspberry Pi 4
out of the box and that is because
Raspberry Pi 4 has a different placement
of the HDMI outputs plus it's a micro
HDMI vs and two of them versus a
full-sized HD
my so it's not that you couldn't fan
dangle something to make it work if
you've got the ability to cut steel you
would be able to punch a little hole to
be able to make it so that it works with
a Raspberry Pi for there's no limit to
like the screen will work with it yep
but the case itself because it's built
for a Raspberry Pi 3 B+ and before
that's the type of output for the HDMI
that the case is compatible with ok so
that's what we're up against with the
Raspberry Pi 4 but it's not to say that
you couldn't do a little bit of nice
hardware hacking to make it work sounds
like a challenge
let's make it so then we can like
control a drone or something ooh let's
just order let's get on that code it's a
full computer guys so I mean come up
with some ideas let us know how you
would use this is it a kiosk is it a
little computer to be playing games on
is it something that you want to be it's
touchscreen so hey you could use that I
could install Google remote desktop on
that and I could control Telestream
Wirecast using a touchscreen
there you go on a Raspberry Pi I like
that in real time now you could use a
USB to hook up to say a webcam sure and
you could use that for video
conferencing that's true too yeah that
would be a great little
videoconferencing unit can I get like a
little command and control center for
your house yeah or your basement there
you go I'm sure game hold from a marrow
drive we came up with something cool
that guy just like yeah zombify is ever
set to it it's set to it all right folks
get yours a cat5 TV /pi we've got some
links there in order to to take a look
at those and we've got the purchase
links and more information as well
