CBS has started teasing I get I won't
say XV like sharing with us the details
but definitely teasing the new Star Trek
the card series what a stupid name
Star Trek Picard they could have done
something with that it's my opinion I
feel like they're obviously my we have a
character his name is Picard water we're
gonna call this show what are we gonna
call this show oh I have an idea it's
like when we call the new the newsroom
the Sasha show I mean that's
tongue-in-cheek but this is real life
this is CBS calling a show Star Trek
Picard
so they were like 12 people around a
table and they were all very serious and
they were drinking their coffees and
they were like you know showing up early
and everything and there was probably a
flip board or some sort of device and
they were going through some options and
they settled on Picard Star Trek but
wait a minute
isn't he the lead character yeah yeah oh
yeah I guess I guess that makes sense
then I guess we could call it but it
starts in the past like there's a show
that I I think is great yes this hour
has 22 minutes yeah that's a ridiculous
name for a show it's true though it's
that's fun so this is obviously only
going to be about Picard nobody else
will be in a well in fact we have heard
rumor that some of the Star Trek The
Next Generation alumni are going to be
at least making cameo performances so
one of the ones that I'm excited about
is brent Spiner reprising his role as
data which is surprising because the
problem that they ran into with data the
Android is that brent Spiner the actor
ages like the rest of us
but I've got it how can an Android age
Androids don't age are they going to use
that technology that they use it's kind
of like a deep fake yeah but that
they'll just be ages exactly I mean I'm
sure that there'll be some sort of
filter or video enhancement or
incredible makeup jobs or something I've
seen this done where they've D aged
using technology using CGI right the
actor
why wouldn't you sign up for that yeah
but then we need Star Trek data wait
will Wesley Crusher be in it I liked him
not that I've heard I don't think Wesley
Crusher is welcome in any of the kind of
burned some bridges so I did like him
yeah you know he was a good good
character yeah well yeah but so okay so
name aside we do know that it's
happening we do know that it is starring
Sir Patrick Stewart and so that is
exciting right
do we know where we'll watch it well I'm
thinking we're probably gonna have to
set up a big screen TV here maybe like a
maybe a pulldown screen with a projector
something 16 K or something like that
perfect yeah definitely
but that aside we don't really know a
lot about the show mm-hmm if you haven't
seen the trailer get on YouTube do a
search for Star Trek Picard and just be
like okay well I still don't know
anything except we do learn in the
trailer the Captain Picard has left
Starfleet oh so the question becomes
what possibly cause jean-luc Picard to
leave Star Trek that Starfleet okay so
he's left Starfleet but he still has the
enterprise like he still know so we work
in the vineyard he's working the family
vineyard on earth I don't even know
what's happening of lis nobody does we
don't really know what's going on so
we've also learned that Alison Pill is
going to be playing
a character within the cast that's all
we really know and if you remember she
actually played the daughter of Stephen
Carell in Dan was it called Dan the in
the real-life dan in real life dan in
real life
yes Harry Treadway is from the crown
he's also going to be cast without a
vCard episode series as well there is a
good chance that we're gonna have to
wait for at least a few months before we
know more kind of why does it do
information about it all we know is that
sometime this year so later this year
where are we that's what we know okay
we're not even halfway yet yeah
so it'll probably be fall winter season
of 29 November yeah and it's only gonna
be 10 10 episodes as far as I understand
it but there is there are some good news
that's what it is going to be accessible
to us fans you don't necessarily impart
me have to subscribe to all kinds of CBS
services in order to gain access to Star
Trek Picard if you have Amazon Prime
it's going to be on there yeah here in
Canada it's going to be available
through Bell media it's going to be on a
few different channels but of course
having Amazon Prime is going to be a big
plus for American viewers of course CBS
all access is going to have it as well
all these details are gonna be coming to
light over the next probably couple of
months we're gonna start to learn about
what's going on with Star Trek Picard
comment below what you think a better
name would be for this show it didn't
take long and I was laughing and I was
showing you know memes to my wife of
things that have been posted on Twitter
and of course what the best the absolute
best was Star Trek Picard oh oh yeah
Robert Picardo the holographic doctor
from Star Trek Voyager
that was absolutely genius but they were
taking it every level Sara
The Captain's Log oh they may never see
bathrooms and start they never they
never did that
[Music]
[Applause]
you
