you use a smartphone yes if you use like
Bluetooth headphones yes any other
charitable devices what do you what do
you have to charge my kids are like
they've got their action cams yeah
they're constantly charging those my
fifty portable chargers I'm thinking
sweat oh that's an interesting point
what else do ya Kendyl switches USB see
yes what else do it
well yeah my I mean I guess my dash cam
but yeah that comes off of the 12 yeah
but if I wanted to take it outside of
the car I wouldn't need to keep power on
it if I wanted to use it than anything
else okay
all right interesting that you mentioned
the switch yes and I'm gonna count I
want to circle back to that okay because
typically a portable charger doesn't
have enough power to power something
like a switch right but what if I could
tell you the ravpower okay I've been
really impressed with rap power folks
grab power what did that do when I hit
that down it made quite a noise cat v
dot TV slash portable is where you're
gonna find this yeah rap power they they
make the batteries that we use in most
of our lighting rigs here at the studio
and everything else but what is really
really cool about what they've got with
with this particular power bank which
I'm gonna get into the box should I get
into the box is a power bank that is an
insane amount of power are you ready for
this yes 26800 milliamp hours can you
twenty-six thousand eight hundred
milliamp hours do you want me to break
that down okay so I'm actually just
gonna jump into the box here write down
the box it's not it's not any bigger
than my traditional like power brick I'm
gonna push the button and see if it's
charged did it come with a charge it did
the lights light up so I can actually
see that
this particular power brick Sasha yes it
has two ismart ports that is like fast
charge it has a USB type-c okay and it
has an input port which is USB micro so
that's for charging feel that oh yeah
what else is in the box okay let's
quickly get in the box did I mention
twenty six thousand eight hundred
milliamp hours so I want to put that
into context for a second please
this will power a Mac that a MacBook Pro
this will charge your MacBook Pro and it
fits in your pocket it fits in your
duffel bag or your laptop bag oh this is
like a nice little carrying case a fancy
carrying case for they've they've
thought of everything ravpower that's a
USB micro cable to charge that device so
that allows you to charge it from your
standard USB output this is another USB
micro so I guess you could plug this
into the the iSmart ports in order to
short charge your phone and write other
device right or you can reverse it and
put it into the input port and charge
your actual raft power device okay
alright what else is in the box let's
see this looks like USB see ya yes
that's a USBC cable so that will allow
you to charge your let's say your
notebook computer can you imagine that
you can actually charge your notebook
computer from this so anyone who has a
pine book or a pine book pro that's what
you need you can actually charge your
pine book pro from this device probably
multiple times this will charge a
Nintendo switch yeah this has a USB C
output and it came with a USBC cable
this will actually charge your Nintendo
switch three maybe four times on a
single charge
and to boots ash are you ready for this
the standard charger takes like 14 hours
this will take like 4 how do they do
that because it's got a smart it's fast
charge ok it pumps the juice into the
internal switch yeah go exactly it's
just like hey Nintendo switch let's like
let's juice you up is this new magic
like it is yes it's exactly new magic
that's exactly right
what else have I got for you as far as
specifications go ok it will charge an
iPhone 10 this is the brand new iPhone
ok five times five times on a single
charge ok and the iPhone 10 of course
that's got really good battery life as
it is so what's that like five days
worth of charge it's got enough power to
charge your macbook pro and keep it
going your raspberry pi think about that
we've looked at the PI Voyager yes
as a battery backup solution for the
Raspberry Pi but what about putting this
in the field
connecting the input to like a solar
panel and allowing it to charge this I
love that how many milliamp hours is
this 26800 I don't understand years will
the raspberry my brain doesn't get what
that means like well your standard
batteries are like you might get like a
couple thousand milliamp hours okay and
this is twenty six thousand eight
hundred yeah on a single charge
right it's not that heavy for all it
really is but but so plug this into a
Raspberry Pi or another single board
computer let's throw a road xu4 on here
and see how long we can power it for
we're gonna power it from the battery
like infinitely because as soon as the
Sun comes up the solar panels are gonna
recharge this if you put solar panels
I'm just using that as an example but
it's a ton of power but that said you
could you could plug your Raspberry Pi
into this as a server or whatever take
it elsewhere and it's still powered and
then you switch it over to the power on
the AC and it's never down you're always
up if you're using it as a server or
something like that
all right what do we got 30 watt type-c
so 30 full watts when I was mentioning
the Nintendo switch just a quick note
for you yeah you can actually charge it
from this and power it from this while
playing it so I want to be clear now not
with the HDMI of course the HDMI uses
the USBC but if you're just using a
screen you'll be able to charge your
your Nintendo switch while you're
playing it and then as soon as it's
finished charging put it back on the the
HDMI if you wanted to put it up on the
TV in a power outage in like a natural
disaster you want to play Mario Kart 8
I'm sure you probably do very very
important and be playing your way
exactly so I talked about plugging in
expensive hardware like a Nintendo
switch plugging in your MacBook Pro
plugging in your pine pine book Pro whoa
what kind of protection is there against
surges and things like that there is
there is surge protection built into it
how do you like that it's got overcharge
short-circuit and surge protection so it
will not overcharge you device it has
protection against that it will not
short-circuit your device it has
protection against that all built into
this little thing would it keep your
device you know how sometimes when
you're charging something it gets really
hot what is that will it keep that
that's heat oh he no heat is good he is
good yeah heat is the transfer of
electricity okay as long as it's not
unsafe like if it's on fire then you're
probably not you're probably not you
don't have surge protection that much
but yeah heat is the like the transfer
of electricity will result in heat okay
that's inevitable okay so so yeah you're
you're gonna generate a little bit of
heat when you're when you're
transferring things over when your
Raspberry Pi is powered up from it or
from a CEO or whatever okay yeah you're
gonna encounter
that's it folks hey 3.4 amp buy smart
ports out of a battery that's better
than most of my power supplies that I
plug into the wall so it's fantastic if
Dave were to get this for Christmas
we're ready yeah dave was to get this I
know Dave gets all the things I want for
Christmas if you want this for Christmas
it's cat5 TV slash portable sacha if
you're watching this live of course that
will be up after the show but that's all
that I need to say about that I'm just
very very impressed I mean you got to
think about that three point four amps
coming out of the iSmart ports and when
I work with single board computers all
the time like I always want portability
I want power and this is going to give
me way more than enough for something
like a Raspberry Pi right I'm very very
pleased with that but looking back your
headphones mm-hmm you can charge them
from this you can charge your whatever
you want if you're a traveler you need
that that's absolutely on the road again
get your raft power
it'll keep you powered up that's the new
quote and you have to say it that way
just like that
