here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
scanning of random reports and the use
of encrypted malware by online criminals
is on the rise according to a threat
report by SonicWALL a semi-autonomous
robot designed to operate in hostile
environments has been developed by NASA
and word is that it could be used to
help build a base on Mars ascent
researchers discovered a new Android
ransomware family that attempts to
spread to victims contacts and deploy
some unusual tricks and linus torvalds
the creator of linux is killing off
support for legacy disk drive tech these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere this is the category 5.2 TV
newsroom covering the week stopped X
days
Linux bias I'm Jeff lesson and here the
top stories were following this week
scanning of random ports and the use of
encrypted malware by online criminals is
on the rise according to a threat report
by SonicWALL based on SonicWALL sampling
of what it says were 700 million such
intrusions by the end of 2018 around 20
percent of all male malware attacks were
coming through non-standard ports a some
of which had decreased by 13 percent
compared to 2018 the company explained
that non-standard meant ports which are
not in routine use by other programs
such as ports 80 and 443 for one's web
browser SonicWALL chief executive bill
Connor says those in charge of malware
deployments are certainly cognizant of
this blind spot and continued he
actively exploited organizations aren't
prepared for protecting this attack
vector with the same diligence as
standard ports encrypted malware was
something else that SonicWALL said was
on the rise increasing by a quarter
compared to the preceding 12 months the
2018 in 2018 the company said that it
had logged more than two point eight
million encrypted malware attacks a
twenty seven percent jump over the
previous year a variety of factors
contributed to this trend in sonic walls
view ransomware as a service that's RAAS
open source malware kits and
cryptocurrencies bounced back up this is
what the firm said with ransomware
continuing to be a successful moneymaker
for criminals that are deploying it
Connor says I'm certain that a number of
high profile ransomware cases involving
major US cities also signaled that there
are still large vulnerable targets out
there despite ransomware being a
headline for the past four to five years
not to point any fingers or anything
I'll just say some high profile cities
in the United States that maybe have
been attacked by ransomware
so what shocks me kind of about this is
that after this length of time yeah
we're going Oh
there's other ports we should be looking
at mmm I like to me that's common sense
yeah I use CSF lfd on my servers and it
watches for port scans and blocks the IP
address if someone tries one right but
it's absolutely secure it shows that
security through obscurity is not
security at all because some people will
do this where oh yeah I need remote
desktop so I just won't use 3389 I'll
use 33 92 nobody will ever guess that or
whatever right but a port scan actually
looks incremental e at all the ports and
most likely you're not blocking those
port scans and if that's the case and
they find that 33 92 as opposed to 33 89
and they see that that's the RDP
protocol that's running well yeah if I
just said a whole bunch of things that
make absolutely no sense just know that
this is a serious issue but that's what
kind of bothers me is like that is not
common thinking for me but at the same
time I think of that and go you need to
be monitoring all the ports
why would security professionals not be
thinking that way from the get-go
there's two approaches one is to monitor
all the ports yes but the second is just
to lock down by default mm-hmm 100% all
ports are closed unless you open them
unless you specifically open the ports
try doing that at home became a bit of a
pain in the butt mm-hm
but then still if a port scan takes
place what what action is being taken
mm-hmm like is there a way to hide your
ports though so then they don't respond
saying oh this port is open this port is
good if they are open they will
presumably respond but is there a way to
like hide yourself besides unplugging
your computer kind of like a port
cloaking device yeah it's like that the
best way is to have a proper firewall in
place that uses login failure daemon or
something like that
so that
yeah port 22 is open but if they guess
the wrong password three times lock
their IP address out of my network right
right because if I'm SSA Qing to my
server I know my password I know my key
so if you're if you're not using
something like lfd login failure daemon
you have no protection against somebody
brute-forcing over and over once they
find that try to get in yeah and that's
exactly why ransomware is a thing
because they're finding Remote Desktop
Protocol enabled on networks and they're
able to get in and then someone says
well I had antivirus
yeah but they remote it in to the
computer and guess what they turned off
the dang antivirus what they're gonna do
it's amazing how many people still think
that antivirus protects them from
everything it doesn't there is no
disclaimer that says it will protect you
from allowing somebody else access to
your network and that's exactly what
you're doing if you turn on things like
RDP regardless of whether you use
obscure ports or not and now we're
seeing so so to just kind of circle back
and say okay looking at the story what
we're seeing SonicWALL themselves the
firewall company have noted that
non-standard port attacks are on the
rise right
so that means port scans are happening
and if you're not protecting yourself
with LFT or some other type of login
failure denial firewall then you are
susceptible to those attacks because the
ports are going to be open because
that's guarantee the services right
totally right yeah it's simple yet so
complex yes a semi autonomous robot
designed to operate in hostile
and word has it that it could be used to
help build a base on Mars a six-foot two
inch semi autonomous humanoid robot
Valkyrie was designed with the ultimate
goal by NASA to help humans colonize
Mars the 300 pound robot has been
prepped with a number of space-based
trials by nasa's space Robotics
Challenge the robot can use human tools
and map its own path safely it can
navigate well across rocky terrain
thanks to its hydraulic
and at first sight the Valkyrie is an
Iron Man look-alike with a glowing
circle in its chest marking the robots
status inside the infrared transparent
faceplate you will find a whirring lidar
sensor that constantly scans the
surroundings for objects and obstacles
the robot has dual brains to Intel Core
i7 computers which translate the sensors
input
although Valkyrie is tested with a power
cord in place it can read on a battery
pack lasting an hour there will be a
host of cameras and sensors around
Valkyrie a multi sensor LS camera on its
head which combines laser 3d stereo and
video as well as an extra hazard camera
looking ahead and behind from the torso
38 sensors on each three fingered hand
will maintain dexterity and control so
basically if you've ever watched the
movie the Martian Valkyrie will pretty
much recreate its plot - the part about
growing potatoes it's an interesting
story but really Iron Man it's actually
kind of cool looking it is cool I am
surprised though that it's i7 yeah but
just because it's been in development
for a little bit that's my guess well I
mean you don't need i9 for what it does
but no but what what my point is and a
marriage roit is saying well that's
gonna kill the battery life because yeah
you've got the hyper setting and it uses
a lot of power right that's why an i3
notebook will and an i-5 will power will
last a lot longer on battery than an i7
correct right because the i7 has just
bleeding the the battery drive but my
thought is it's surprising that they're
creating an autonomous robot that is not
utilizing some of the more modern AI
technology like I'm talking like neural
technology well it's still new right so
that's just another thing that can go
wrong do you think that as developers
like all of these new nano processors
have come out and they're like oh we put
this thing on an ice and it started
Alai sevens it's got a motherboard about
this big and two honkin heatsink
sidewall
I want to see what they do with that
stuff then like if this is just using I
sevens imagine what they can do with
that technology yeah but if they're
building it for CPU instead of NPU then
it's the wrong architecture right hey
try I'm just surprised that there wasn't
any reference to solar panels like the
fact that can only run battery for an
hour like if you're gonna go to Mars put
a solar panel it's not like the game
last half there no it's gonna have a
charging station because that's true
farther from the Sun and dust and stuff
right yeah so it's like if you have like
a central hub they can go to yeah and
like do their thing that's what I wonder
a is having a massive hub where they
charge so like when it's done the way it
works is expanding there it goes back
with it that way by doing it that way
they can have a much larger base for the
batteries for the for the charging
station and it can be lighter weight it
can be more mobile and more inches wide
what was the the robot it said something
about like 6 feet and then 3 inches I
thought no what use is that Jeff it just
falls over it's an exciting time we live
in but like they can use that on the
moon and stuff too so Space Station
there you go yeah we got to start
somewhere right yeah baby steps and Mars
Wally get us alright
ISA researchers discovered a new Android
some unusual tricks after two years of
decline in Android ransomware a new
family has emerged we've seen the
ransomware detected by ESET mobile
security as Android file code
distributed via various online forms
using victims contact lists it spreads
further via SMS with malicious links do
to narrow targeting and flaws in both
execution of the campaign and
implementation of its encryption
the impact of this new ransomware is
limited however if the developers fix
the flaws and the operators start
targeting broader groups of users the
Android file code ransomware could
become a serious threat Android file
code has been active since at least July
12 2019 within the campaign ESET
discovered Android file code has been
distributed via malicious posts on
reddit and the XDA Developers forum a
forum for Android developers the
malicious activity was reported to
xda-developers and reddit the posts on
the XDA Developers forum were removed
swiftly the malicious reddit profile
remained online Android file code
spreads further via SMS with malicious
links which are sent to all contacts in
the victims contact list asked after the
ransomware sends out a batch of
malicious sms's it encrypts most user
files on the device and requests a
ransom due to flawed encryption it is
possible to decrypt the the affected
files without any assistance from the
attacker in one link that was shared on
reddit the attackers used the URL
shortener Battelle why this bit ly URL
was created on June 11th 2019 once
potential victims receive an SMS message
with the link to the malicious
application they need to install it
manually after the app is launched it
displays whatever is promised in the
post distributing it most often it's a
sex simulator online game however its
main purposes are command and control
communication spreading malicious
messages and implementing the encryption
decryption mechanism why SMS well and
this is what I'm thinking immediately is
it just goes to show that you cannot
trust that just because it's coming from
my friend that it can be trusted like if
you suddenly got an SMS like if I got
one from you and it said hey Robi
clicked this link and it was
legitimately from your phone number
because it's your phone that's infected
it it automatically creates a level of
trust for me I don't ever trust a link
that comes in through tech not even than
what I'm talking but no it comes from
your phone number but more than just
someone you know it's from your phone
number like a link through a text I
always respond back going is this legit
did you set yeah yeah what does it do
hey Jeff yeah what's with this sex game
you sent me but yeah like I mean I guess
that makes sense I mean by a semester
seems a little bit more personal sure
rather than like the prince of persia
wants to give you a million dollars
really but but but also there's this
fact that like I don't give my cell
phone number to anyone
I don't you you may have though but some
of some of my maybe you need to join the
close circle Jeff but so if I got her
down in that circle no but think you've
never had a need to contact me on my
smartphone so because we're like we're
so connected on like discord and
everything else so but if that was not
the case if it was somebody so for
someone like me who has so few people
that I'm in communication with on my
smartphone yeah right
what if it came from one of them so like
that's fair I don't it's not like a bulk
mail it's like that's from one of the
ten people who have my smartphone number
and it's their number and it shows on my
phone is from them yeah so all of a
sudden I I have that level of trust so
we really have to be careful it's
smarter and this could lead to new types
of phishing scams
I mean ransomware is one thing so this
is something that you have to install
but what if it was a link to a website
that was a phishing scam I've seen them
where it's where it's an Instagram this
is Instagram is so stupid with their way
that they've created their service
because you have to log in in order to
see the photos yes so because of that
that's stupid yeah that phishing scam
could easily trick me into thinking I'm
opening Instagram and I need to login in
order to access the photo that's being
sent to me and then at the same time it
steals your login information exactly
that's how phishing scams work so that's
something that didn't need to be
installed it's something that would have
just shown up on my SMS messages from
somebody that I probs do you see that
where it's like oh you got a reset your
password on your bank account sure yeah
that seems like that's something a
little harder to fall for my Instagram
example is very easy for someone to fall
Oh totally so you know my moral a story
no downloading simulated sex games
oh just stay away from them folks yep
just stay away all right
lotta store holds the creator of Linux
is killing off support for legacy disk
drive tech say goodbye to your save
button floppy disks appeared in the
1970s first is giant 8-inch disks before
slimming down to the five and a quarter
inch variety scene attached to many pcs
and home computers of the 1980s the
1980s also marked the beginning of the
end of the traditional floppy with the
considerably stiffer three and a half
inch version from Sony which dumped the
flexible sleeve protecting the magnetic
magnetic media with something much more
rigid with a metal covering that could
be slid aside when inserted into the
disc into the drives mechanism the 1998
imax iMac courageously did not feature a
floppy drive and within the decade the
vast majority of PC makers had followed
suit as CD DVD and USB storage became
more prevalent much of the world has
known the floppy was dead for some time
but Torvalds has made it official with a
Linux kernel merge marking the floppy
driver as
orphaned the issue is that there were
plenty of USB drives out there actual PC
hardware is becoming a thing of the past
thanks to motherboard makers ditching
the relevant connectors and because very
few people use floppy too floppy disks
anymore Torvalds observed that actual
working physical floppy hardware is
getting hard to find and consider the
driver dead with a few faint use cases
still present in emulated environments
but if you really need to read those old
discs USB is going to be the way forward
naturally just being orphaned doesn't
mean that the driver is actually
disappearing immediately but it does
mean that unless some magic or magnetic
media meddler steps up to maintain it
the odds are will be depreciated and
eventually removed make sense I'm like
at this point so I got my laptop and it
has no optical drive yeah and so it's
the same things changed yeah but it's
the same kind of scenario where so I
actually went out and for 20 bucks I
bought a USB optical drive
there you go yeah there's no need for an
SAT a optical driver anymore because
it's USB right it's all Universal Serial
bus well same thing with a floppy disk
if you still use them it's gonna be an
external USB and you thinking back to
the old ThinkPad days like years ago
like in the 90s like where the the flash
drive
not the flash drive pardon me the the
floppy drive became an external unit
that plugged into USB yes and that was
an upgrade component that you could buy
to make your laptop backward compatible
to those early discs I still have a
floppy of Commander Keen yeah I have
Star Trek shareware discs oh nice
which is kind of neat I use them as
coasters and stuff like that that's kind
of fun yeah I was cleaning a lot of old
disks yeah
and one of my kids side he goes hey that
looks like the save button let me tell
you why this is sorry because I stored
one point for four megabytes dad what's
a megabyte well I just turned 25 and the
thing is that like back in high school
when I was in grade 9 yeah our computers
still have floppy disks got like in the
sense that I was like yeah I could put
it in and take it on stuttering and
literally are going through high school
we have until the grade 10 11 all like
the grade nines coming in and stuff what
what is this for like yeah weird
rectangle like my CD doesn't fit in it
what is a form like woman and the early
USB flash drives were what eight gigs so
I think I had a to a two gig but when
you can put that into the perspective of
one point four four megabytes or density
was two point eight eight so two point
eight eight megabytes it's like a photo
and a Tutera by are two gigabyte is two
thousand essentially two hundred two
thousand forty eight yeah yeah 2048
somebody's that's all
burgers like Windows 3.1 disc 2 yes 3
thought the Windows XP install a
horrible cds before dvds right CD 1 CD 2
CD 3
oh my yeah you don't even know dude I
know an operating system from one point
four four mega floppies it's it's and
then you got two discs sixteen and it
was corrupt yeah and you had to order
discs sixteen and make sure that the
power didn't go out to the computer cuz
he didn't want to have to start over it
was for the dare
remember it's the end stuff like that I
think our first computer had the five
and a quarter hmm yeah well my first
computer had an audio cassette deck that
really or the data magnetically awesome
so you used just normal cassettes which
are like a reel-to-reel tape that's how
a lame yeah
alright oh this is actually me I've got
to take a look at the cryptocurrency
report let's see we got here okay so an
coin kakko this week Bitcoin is up ten
thousand thirty seven dollars and ten
cents u.s. is the current value gaining
two hundred thirty two dollars this week
Facebook Libre is still not trading
litecoin is at ninety eight dollars and
seventy nine cents US gaining three
dollars and ninety three cents this week
aetherium is at two fifteen forty eight
losing just a little bit Manero is
staying fairly static at eighty dollars
and four cents us torque is actually
starting to see some gains we're at 110
thousandths of a cent that's the highest
I've ever seen it Wow
for a single torque coin so these being
the the very very small coins so you can
tell like yeah yeah that's right
turtle coin is still slow and steady at
point eight for ten thousandth of a cent
losing zero for the material for yeah I
just keep waiting dude keep coming we're
gonna be on Mars before turtle coin goes
to the moon tell you
don't forget if you are going to play
around with cryptocurrency make sure you
only do as much as you can afford to
lose the cryptocurrency market never
closes and is always volatile that's it
for the cryptocurrency report Jeff
excellent
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five dot TV newsroom I'm Jeff
Weston fillion for Shasta Rickman ha ha
Sascha Rickman and I'm Ravi Ferguson and
I'm still Henry Bailey Brown
[Music]
