covering the week stop text alerts light
Linux bias the UK government has
announced that drones will be used to
carry medical supplies from Hampshire to
the Isle of Wight a planned trial of the
technology began this week in March the
government announced funding for drone
tests and a new air traffic control
system but Grant Shapps Secretary of
State for Transport said there was an
urgent need for the trial to begin
sooner than planned ferry crossings to
the Isle of Wight are currently reduced
due to the spread of Cova 19 an unmanned
aerial vehicle can make the crossing to
the Isle of Wight in about 10 minutes
the government expects about four
flights per day to be made depending on
the needs of the United Kingdom National
Health Service a spokeswoman told the
BBC that the first flights would carry
personal protective equipment however in
future the drone could deliver the time
critical supplies such as blood and
organs the trial will use a
gasoline-fueled wind racers ultra
fixed-wing drone capable of carrying a
hundred kilogram payload for up to a
thousand kilometres the Department for
Transport said the drone would fly
autonomously along a fixed route between
Lyon the Solent in Hampshire and
Binstead on the Isle of Wight to safety
pilots one at each airfield will oversee
each flight a spokeswoman told the BBC
that the flight would take around 10
minutes significantly reducing
derivative every times between the Isle
of Wight and mainland after goods have
been dropped off at the airfield they
will be delivered to st. Mary's Hospital
on the Isle of Wight by Road because
this is all happening so happening so
quickly an unmanned traffic management
system cannot be put in place in time
though it will be pursued for the long
term so for now rather than integrating
the drone with regular air traffic a
temporary danger area is being set up
for 90 days to separate the drone
