welcome to category five technology TV
Amy double D is joining us this week to
talk about her Tesla Model 3 hack she's
got the implant to be able to open the
doors and start the engine and
everything else we've been hearing about
it in the news but we're gonna learn
what goes on and how she came up with
that hack and learn a little bit more
about Amy herself and and all the things
that she's up to that maybe aren't
getting the same media attention as the
Tesla hack because she's just touched on
so many different things with that one
we've got a great show planned for you
folks stick around our live recordings
are trusted only to solid-state drives
by Kingston technology revive your
computer with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with Telestream wire cast and
nimble streamer tune in every week on
roku cody and other HLS video players
for local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 dot TV slash t pn and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 dot TV slash IA ib
welcome to the show everybody it's
episode number six twenty seven of
category five technology TV so great to
have you here before we jump into it
want to remind you make sure that you
subscribe to us on youtube and click on
that little bell that's gonna make sure
that you get the notifications whenever
we are live or when we post brand new
shiny videos so make sure you subscribe
now you know her as the girl who hacked
the Tesla key card so all she has to do
is wave her hand and it'll open the door
or start the engine and she's a
world-famous cosplayer and maker and she
uses the blood of her enemies to 3d
print gems he's cool more on that later
but she also she funds STEM education
for young girls and she teaches robotics
for kids and adults alike her name is
Amy Daniel Dan's be better known as Amy
double D for short Amy welcome to the
show thanks I can say how do you all
from Texas yes it makes sense now now
the whole world knows you Amy as as a
maker and a cosplayer but what really
makes you tick and who is Amy double D
yeah the fun things I guess my actual
name is Amy
Daniel Dan's B so my initials are ad D
thank you mom and dad for that and
that's kind of like I always just used
my actual name my actual daywalker job
is a software developer I started pretty
much in games used to work at Marvel
Studios I actually worked on the first
Captain America game I worked on the
first Thor game I actually worked on
some of the calculations that I'm sorry
you froze up right there you you worked
on the calculations for perfect it was
like marble they're coming in and
they're like oh don't talk about it so I
worked on some of the calculations for
Thor's cape for some of the polygons and
further rendering yeah because at the
time things like ragdoll physics was
very computationally expensive so super
proud of that um yes of my actual
college degree I would say is in his
game simulation programming so actually
that's what I still do very cool
now Amy like in in August your Tesla
hack we've all heard about it it just
blew up in the media and it's instant
fame for you how has that been as far as
like dealing with that sudden onslaught
of media and people visiting your
website and giving their two cents about
what they think about all the cool
things that you're doing yeah yeah so
I've actually worked on this like Tesla
hack for like a year yeah and I was at
Def Con when it actually went viral and
Def Con just a hacking conference in
Vegas
and I was eating and my brother sent me
a text he's like you're on the front
page of TechCrunch and I'm like what I'm
like what the heck
like I said it wasn't like a weekend win
project I've been working on this for a
year I've been documenting all my stuff
on hack a day and like a tech diary and
I think as I showed blood I actually
like showed like the gory process and
the media just picked it up and went
viral I think of as far as like the
internet fame I've always kind of had
bet people find you naturally whether
it's through like the STEM education and
the cosplay the making community
programming or tech conferences and
those people are always like they find
you on the Internet you follow each
other it's like mutual respect but this
is a completely different thing I have
people you know giving opinions they
don't know me they don't anything about
me judging based on my appearance that's
definitely a hard thing to handle like I
think the video in China had like 20
million views like thank goodness I
can't read those comments oh dear
so some of the comments have obviously
been nasty yeah yeah a lot of religious
backlash yeah which is interesting so I
and can I ask now and we're gonna talk
more about the Tesla hack in a little
bit our viewers have already heard about
it but were you expecting a religious
backlash when you when you got into this
project yeah so I have another chip
implants so I'm definitely been there
before so it was not something new to me
I just some of the arguments or I
wouldn't not invalid but it just doesn't
like what is the reason for the hate in
the backlash for that um
I pretty much just my friends like just
don't read in the comments
sure but in the beginning I was trying
to reply to everyone that was asking a
legitimate tech question about like you
know what is RFID or what happens when
you have to cut off your arm and
changing the battery and I'm like well
that's not how you know this type of
technology works so i was i was littered
like a legitimate trying to reply to
everyone yeah but blew up i read it
my personal appearance or probably like
the woman said I don't know and also the
guy that installed it for me
yeah Oh has he been dealing with
backlash too it would be a people were
saying you know like they're like oh she
has green hair and tattoos she obviously
doesn't make like she doesn't plan for
the future but I'm like but I over plan
I like so so how do you deal with that
stress I mean personally we know that
that wasn't your motivation to raise
hell right like you're an innovator you
create and you you take things to the
next level that's that's what you're all
about how do you deal with the this
sudden backlash with sudden like extreme
fame so sure you know well-known up
until a point in August drops and
everybody in the world is talking about
a me double D so yeah and that opinion
so there's some so much opinion like
even if 50% of it is hate opinion how do
you personally internalize that and deal
with that hmm yeah so I think it's like
kind of it's still a hard thing because
I'm like alright I'm still like a human
being
yeah let's remember that for us yeah I
mean I have some upgraded parts but it's
still and it's weird because you have 50
good good things people say and isn't
that one bad one it's like why does that
like mentally like affect you because
you feel you need to prove yourself yeah
so I tried to just I'm like alright I'm
gonna focus on the ones that are
positive or ones that are not making
like pointing out like my appearance or
anything but try to give my opinion
because that's one thing people don't
understand is like they think the chip
thing is super weird but RFID technology
is not a new thing it's been around a
really long time but same for like you
you wear your glasses so to me glasses
are some type of body modification you
weren't born with it but they improve
your life right so sweets but somebody's
like alright that's not permanent so I'm
like well what if you get LASIK so know
what now you're gonna burn your eyeballs
with a laser
and that like makes it more but that's
like acceptable yeah fine now standard
so and you're trying to grab at
analogies and that that can try to make
people understand I mean what it boils
down to like you don't have to go there
Amy like you're you're doing something
awesome and you're doing some incredible
things and this is that's up to you what
you do with your own body so but you got
to know that sure yeah but sharing
that's like the thing I think I'm trying
I was like who my friends like okay why
did you do this like what was the point
of accomplishing that right so obviously
you have no idea when something goes
viral like you know people are gonna ask
you philosophical like life selections
but at the same time I want people to
share I don't want people to be like
discouraged when you're like work on
projects because like everyone no one
knows what they're doing in the
beginning like you like to think you do
but you don't so if you stop sharing
what you're doing then like you know
we'll never be on Mars or whatever the
the future holds waiting for my be able
to beam me up
that'll be my yeah my future so so let's
let's look at what you actually do so so
stepping back from like the the negative
side of the fame that you've received
and stepping back from having to justify
your decisions as a maker and and let's
look at some of the things that that you
know like like I want to know one of my
questions right at the top was what
makes Amy tick and I and I'm wondering
like where when did you realize as a as
a person that you were gonna use your
creativity to inspire other young people
and just makers in general yeah and so I
think that's something I've kind of come
to realize probably over my somewhat
adult life I feel like I personally do
not feel I'm a creative person and I
know people say that but I'm like yes
but the only reason I am creative is
because of technology right so to me I
think of like artistic and creative or
people that can draw a straight line
without the use of a computer
and that is not me so anything that I've
liked you I make whether it's from
coding or programming to 3d printing any
of that stuff is heavily driven on some
type of technology or computer or math
sure but what's what's to say that the
creative that you're defining their
paintbrush isn't the tool that they're
using right so yeah it's just a
different but see I think of it as like
I'm an obsessive person right okay I
have those obsessive like tennessee's
but like not as like knocking myself is
like I'm not a creative as a bad thing
like if you were to like give me a ball
of clay and be like all right I need you
to mold something like for some reason
that doesn't translate to me but if you
put it in front of a computer I can put
in parameters and not to me that
translates is all right I can put in
these two parameters and you know it
turns into a box or does whatever you
want to set is some type of variable
yeah so then I guess the question
involves into like when did you realize
that technology could be used as an
outlet for whether maybe some 3d
printing or at work I'm sure yeah yeah I
used to work in R&amp;D so we did a lot of
manufacturing for the Xbox and the
consoles and we had like industrial
$250,000
you know US dollar printers oh oh so
you're stepping it up that's like a
billion dollars and you know we we just
use them for prototyping and parts of
Internet and I don't think ever clicked
in my mind until like we were playing
around and we like printed this like a
little sword in there yeah the the
printers are a laser base so they come
out of a powder so literally when you're
pulling it out of like this sword out of
there when it's done and the powder just
releases it's like oh like it's sort of
like it's it was such an eye-opening
moment and I don't know why I never
thought of like 3d printing or additive
manufacturing in
way yeah um I think that was like my
ultimate anyway like drug for that it's
like holy crap like this could be used
for so much more yeah I mean they use it
for so much more but like this I'm like
this is how you actually make like a
little round like spear and object in
wow what a what a world when the
technology can do that so thinking of
the technology piece and and realizing
that that's kind of your first foray
into being a maker what technologies
have you seen since that time Amy that
have really driven your passion or
gotten you excited about the future of
maker whether it be electronics or maker
creations or even cosplay yeah I think I
mean besides just saying the Internet in
general the accessibility to you know
like microcontrollers the accessibility
like open source hardware you know cuz
it used to be that there were patents on
a lot of these like 3d printers and a
lot of these technologies so ads these
patents have expired like 3d printers
are affordable you can buy a 3d printer
like a entry-level basic one for like
two or three hundred dollars on like
Amazon these days and that accessibility
and then if you don't know anything
about 3d printing there's even a
community for models like you know
little things that you can actually
print so these are things people can
have in their home sure I think like the
open nature of like Thingiverse for
example in the way yeah so you're able
to create something and share it with a
community of other makers and I think
about this way so I there's a project
for this school in Africa and they don't
have access to computers or all like
really any type of internet anything
that has to have an internet-based
connection yeah but they had a 3d
printer so they were able to download
models from Thingiverse or somewhere
like that so worked with like this group
of girls and they design these little
purses that they could 3d print so then
they were able to like send the file to
this school in Africa for these girls
and they were able to put it on you know
SD card and printed on their printer so
they don't have access to like a lot of
you know the materials this stuff to
make these purses but the accessibility
of like being able to create something
from nothing and share that yeah that's
pretty cool
too cool now you've kind of evolved your
your creations to include cosplay and
when you've done that I've seen some of
your work and it's incredible you've
you've taken whether it be 3d printing
or maker electronics and and different
circuit boards and things and you've
adapted those into your cosplay
creations so like how did how did you
evolve into that and and getting into
electronics as well and then open
sourcing some of the stuff and it's just
mind-blowing I think like the community
of like the Internet to also but so I
will say probably like most people in
the world we all have our daywalker job
right and you probably work for some big
corporation and you're not sharing your
code you're not talking about your work
you're not you work in a restaurant
they're probably not sharing your
recipes it you know
you kind of live in this like little
this little bubble during the day yeah
so when I would come home at night when
I started to like work on some of these
like you know little projects were 3d
printing or electronics I could share
that because that wasn't part of my my
daywalker job and then next thing you
know you just post something on a open
source like like hackster or hackaday
some-some forum somewhere and you get
general feedback or somebody makes your
design or your model and I think the
fandom I think I feel my I'm very
influenced by what I read or watch at
the moment so fandoms are some weird way
that connects people and so like the
Star Trek Discovery like my friend and I
we both are huge Star Trek discovery
fans even though it's kind of like a
fairly new show but I don't know I know
we talked about this briefly like you
and I in our emails back and forth but
like one
made these ears the inside of the ears
of this disco material - yeah so my
friends like alright they can't just be
like Star Trek disco ears so then I just
made this design and I laser-cut all of
them individually so they're the Star
Trek Delta insignia symbols so I'm gonna
completely over engineered and then I
even designed the circuit boards
themselves cuz I needed kind of a small
footprint to be able to fit on the
inside and just use some pre-program
LEDs but I provided all of that actually
somewhere do you look at that cool yeah
they're like and just goes to show house
like your electronics have been designed
specifically to fit into the cosplay yep
yeah so and really you know there's
access to raspberry pie and a lot of
these other microcontrollers but the
Raspberry Pi is way overkill for just
lighting up some LEDs yeah and I can
fabricate you know that my actual cost
of that is like 20 cents and that
includes the components so I like to
design some of these like circuit boards
if you've been doing some of the stuff
with the flexible PCBs because then you
can you know you're not quite as limited
you can't do a complete like Bend
because you can't have like the copper
touch on each side yeah yeah that's cool
it's it's endless yeah I don't know
that's probably like a complete rambling
of how I got to hear but it's inspiring
going even for me as a as a wannabe
maker like I've on the show done some
soldering I've done some work to to try
to like fix components or even create my
own circuitry so seeing how far you've
been able to take it amy has been
inspiring for someone like myself as
well who's just kind of getting started
is frustrating compared to software I
will say just like it doesn't turn on
debug it it's not but I will say any one
really good thing about the cosplay
aspect of that is that makes me finish a
project so I always say I have one
Long's in like what like why you know
you always get frustrated you get to a
point where you stop so I found a really
good support around I would be other
friends that are actually female
programmers as well and they we do the
cosplay thing so it's very we're very
encouraging so when we go to like a
cause like a comic-con or something like
that like we have to be finished by this
date and whether you think your work
sucks or not and it's really interesting
because I find that you don't ever have
the conversation with people about what
went right the conversations and the
problem-solving about what went wrong is
like that's what you know somebody's
like oh it's perfect what look like what
was the hardest part and he's like oh
nothing and I'm like you are a liar I've
been doing this way listen Amy you you
spoke about a fair bit about the 3d
printing that you've done I just want to
really quickly touch on it what on earth
is the blood of your enemies so if you
know anything about 3d printing so
there's a FDM printers which it actually
kind of looks like have around here
somewhere like the filaments know
everything yeah people don't know okay I
randomly just you know have some that's
my life
so it'll to actually take it up and it
heats it up through a nozzle yeah I love
the I've just loved that you have just
random filament just hanging around your
desk like just read over here oh yeah
here's some filaments there's a filament
company that's local they're based out
of there in Washington I guess I don't
they let me say they're in Portland but
it's called proto pasta and I actually
went up there and worked on making my
own filament color and something I use
in cosplay a lot is like gems so I've
always tried to find like a ruby red
like translucent
so literally through this entire
fabrication process of formulating the
colors machining all of the the filament
it literally looks like pasta so like
that's kind of like they call it's like
the endless possibilities and we got to
name our colors I felt like it was like
a naming a fingernail polish color or
something but they're like what do you
want to call it and I'm like I don't
know so I was like the blood of my
enemies and it's just funny that it's
just evolved into this it's the right
color worked out I know it was it was
perfect it kind of looks beyond the
spool better honor somewhere but I mean
there that company alone so like when
they did the color they're like alright
well what do you like what do you want
to do what do you wanna give back as far
as like the community for 3d printing so
they did they're actually donate 10% to
this scholarship program I created for
girls in STEM and not just my color but
there were two other girls that we all
formulated colors when we were up in at
their workshop and they're donating
percentage to all of it just to push
back for like the STEM education that's
awesome it's yeah the community between
like and I've talked about community a
million times but it's very it's very
true like if you have a very supporting
community like that's the difference
between sharing your work and not
sharing your work I'd like to post a
link below for that filament company so
that Amy we can we can perhaps support
that scholarship program as well
indirectly yeah exactly real quick
before we take a break Amy are there any
projects that come to mind that are just
absolutely obscure that nobody's ever
seen or heard of that you've done that
you're really that you loved doing I
know that's a loaded question yeah that
I love doing
I think the Star Trek year one was
definitely like a niche thing yeah
that's not something like if you just
walked by you you would not know you
would have to literally like look at the
detail of the ears and I know that seems
like minutes cool but it's just the
details I like to put into stuff like
back then not just the fandom of someone
they would see they'd just be like
alright you're doing this thing from
Star Trek disco oh that's funny your
ears light up wait are those like
actually the like a Star Trek Delta
symbols wait holy crap are those like
PCB shaped like the Delta symbol and you
me I don't know I just
the I don't know that's that's the one
thing come to mind section I just
recently got back from so even though
we've all we've seen that one I mean the
labor of love and the intense amount of
detail that you put into that that's
really really cool
God there I have so many like sometimes
I don't feel that I'm like ever not like
proud but it's like if somebody ever
looked at the inside and you just see
it's like it's like oh in my mind it's
gonna be all like organized and then the
open times like a big spaghetti mess
yeah like your electronics because it's
funny like I call it the con crunch so
it's literally you're like everything
works and then they get they're like
nothing works just shove it in there and
I would say dig like all dignity of like
how pretty it was on the outside you're
just like I just want it to work but man
do I have anything trying to think what
I've actually kept um oh so I did this
anything I gave you a picture but I did
a battle snow white armor socially went
with a few other friends and we did
these self rescuing Princess armor and
actually the the breastplate I actually
3d printed that on fabric Wow and so
because I will say like anything that is
a curve is engineering predicament so
trying to make things for like
breastplate armor when stuff doesn't
Bend is always kind of like a challenge
I think so 3d printing stuff on fabric
actually like yeah actually that was I'm
pretty proud of that one to try to like
look around like what else
we'd love we'd love to see it now are
there pictures that we can find on your
website
Amy double D dark
yeah they're on there under under yeah
links are below folks links are below
too - Amy's website Amy we've got to
take a really quick break we are
speaking with Amy Double Dee she is a
maker and when we return we're gonna be
talking with her about that Tesla hack
we all want to know a little bit more
about what went into it and she's got
some words for young girls in stem as
well stick around welcome back everybody
this is category five technology TV have
you ever lost your keys Henry I think I
just did like oh no where are my car
keys actually then there - have you been
there done that well we're speaking with
Amy double D and she is the maker who
has done the Tesla hack so that she will
never lose her car keys again Amy thanks
for joining us this week good to see you
now can you tell us a little bit about
that Tesla hack I mean I know most of us
are already familiar with what you have
accomplished but what was the process
like you mentioned it took about a year
to do but getting through like from
first idea to actually having the
implant done what was that process like
for you so I have a RFID chip implant
and my other hand already
that is just it just holds 888 bytes of
data you can read and write to it it has
unique identifiers and it came around
the time that I guess two or three years
ago I had already budgeted that was my
year to get a new car so I looked at
like the factors of the price I'm like
alright I'm gonna go for it I'm just
gonna go ahead and preorder this Tesla
like day one like it's only $1,000
deposit spent money on worse things or
lego sets or whatever but that I had
heard that they were going to use you
can use your phone to access the car or
instead of giving someone a key it's
a valet key and it's very similar to
like a hotel room key so there's no
identifier in the car just when you go
check in a hotel they take the card they
scan it you know then it like identifies
it with your rooms all right hmm I'm
like I'm pretty sure that technology is
the same as like the chip I currently
have and like I wonder if I'll be able
to write that chip to my current like
implant in my hand and be able to start
my car so there were none of the cars
were out yet right I had to wait two
years to get it so and none of the other
Tesla's had the valet key right so the
Model S doesn't have that I'm so sorry
Model S owners only the model three so
it's kind of like like a thing I'm like
I can't actually test it until I get it
and then when I did get my car and got
the valet key I I scanned them just see
what public information you could get
from like an RFID scanner quite a bit
actually but it runs on a Java applets
things it runs on the secure on the
server-side so that is why you can't rip
off that information and write it to
like a em fair tag and in fair tag is
just like basic access control okay you
know like it for your home let you in
and out yeah they're not too secure so
that's what really made this secure and
it runs on ST micro and from uh
semiconductor in Germany they're the
only not the only company but they've
been around quite a while and super
interesting random thing if you ever
played lego dimensions lego dimensions
is this game and the little characters
it's a physical character and you plug
it into a gamepad like on your xbox or
something so when you actually touched
the Lego controller it shows up on the
game and screen but that communication
is RFID and I thought I was gonna be
sneaky and be able to rip that data off
there too but they actually make the
same like semiconductor as like the
security yeah just super random like
Tesla's pattern by leg
I knew it so there there RFID chip was
significantly more secure than the
traditional RFID is that what I get
because it runs a Java applet which runs
all my secure on the server side so my
car is the the server that is like the
authentication saying so think of it
this way you use your credit card and
they have the chip right you're putting
the card in the machine and it's saying
yes I am present and I authorize you for
this transaction it's a like a two-way
authentication so this is a near field
power like what powers the technology so
that's what's actually really
interesting so the on the Tesla itself
on to open the car on the side of the
car is actually a an rfid reader
yeah so you can tap it once to the side
of the car it will unlock your car I
love it I love that you're already
saying to happen once like you're using
the gesture like you use D for the
normal folks like this yeah what's
another thing that's like super
interesting is everyone asks like so the
antenna on it is massive and massive
it's the size of a Lego minifigure wow
that's my banana to scale measurement
and it needs that whopping antenna
because of the chip liked it just
because that's something I think that's
kind of miscommunicated about how RFID
works like there's no battery in me like
you don't have to charge me or the chip
the way that this radio frequency or
this new near-field communication works
is the power in the battery and
everything is in the car and that reader
so when I get close to it and it's it's
that radio frequency is what's like
giving me the access okay I think that
kind of makes sense would would like a
bulky sweater or anything get in the way
like it yeah okay so you have fun so
that was like a few things that was like
with my test that was like a challenge
because there's two RFID readers in the
car one is it on the outside of the car
to get in and then there's another one
then it's right behind the cupholders on
the center
console and B and the antenna and the
arm like that was very specific to so in
your arm you mean but just in general
like this is like a really bad example
another piece paper okay so okay so the
Tesla valet key card is like this the
size of a credit card and the chip is in
the corner and it runs around this tiny
little copper piece is the antenna it
runs around the perimeter of the card so
when I first dissolve so the way I got
the chip out is I dissolved them in
acetone so cool like chemical grade
acetone I dropped my cell phone in there
- that was not fine thing I cut that
first antenna and I'm like what the heck
shit's not working now because it worked
before when I scanned it like oh that
little copper thing is important yeah so
the cards are really cheap you think
expensive they're around five US dollars
so I kept buying more felt real guilty
kind of felt like it's like going to the
hardware store be like I need some
bleach some duct tape some bags some
industrial grade acetone really like
guilty it look like are they gonna ask
like why am i buying yes like more Tesla
cards yeah so when I dissolved and I
grabbed the the antenna so like say the
antenna is flat like this I was like oh
I'll just bend it maybe bending it like
this and like a 90 degree was a terrible
90 degrees but that bend actually like
is enough to in like mess up like the I
guess the frequency of the strength so I
had troubles with that too like that's
why you couldn't really put put the
antenna like in your wrist because if
you bend it then actually like
interrupts it does antenna know and
actually the the range so I I saw a lot
of people were like oh it only gets like
a 10 millimeter range and I'm like yeah
but it only got like a 25 millimeter
arrangement is with the car
right now my skin is in the way mm-hmm
because you only have to tap it once and
as soon as you authenticate like your
card once you don't have to like keep
your arm on the console okay oh good
that's someone who actually owns a Tesla
that is not true like that's not how it
works
make sense make sense actually when I
was measuring when I was trying to
measure the frequency of the RFID on
this inner side of the console that was
kind of a because there's a thing like
some they could always go in and adjust
like the frequency of like that type of
like RFID right so they could come and
be like alright we're gonna increase it
or we're gonna decrease it so I tried to
make my own like RFID antenna just like
if some extenders like ones you can see
you can put like a sticker on it and
then just like extended outside of the
window oh I think was like I was
measuring like some of the BOD rates
because their chip runs on a thirteen
point five six I think for the megahertz
for the for the frequency so I try to
take like a bunch of so think of this
way you're like everyone's like oh my
cell phone works but then you get into
like a concert a sports game and then
there's like a thousand other people
around you and you'd be like well now
why does my phone that work it's because
there's so many devices on the same
frequency in that same little area so I
took a bunch of other devices that I
knew ran on the same frequency and I
would like put them around the center
console I kind of felt like I was doing
a seance yeah so because I was just
trying to see what like what information
we're kind of like how this thing was
working I tried to get in through the
car as well so you basically you
literally had to hack the Tesla and the
key card in order to figure out how it
worked to know like this was going to
work yeah I really like you know I have
another RFID implant in this hand right
but it's not
I've never had to like make an antenna
like that so that was super interesting
so the guy that I bought my original
chip for my hand from has a webpage
called dangerous things which is very
true but he has another company he's
been trying to start it's called VEVO
key and it's like like an all-in-one
chip where you know you can run your
data through your security your public
transport your banking kind of the real
mark of the beast' chip I said we
weren't gonna go there but I can
understand like at least put it all on
one card I mean I have how many bank
cards and how many credit cards that
like you're not at all connected that's
the V voce chip and so he's the one that
actually encased my chip in the
biopolymer for me okay because you don't
want to put straight copper in your body
that's so I will be long gone and dust
before the biopolymer ever gives out
yeah I'd be more likely to damage it
probably just from you know whacking it
too hard or hitting it yeah Ashley you
have a question from the chairman and I
hope from my own brain yeah so here's a
question from soul boo has Tesla been in
contact in any way and what are their
views so I love the beach this time of
year yeah oh I have oh and that's that's
that's else you can say myself okay so
you know how you hear that sometimes
like you press on lock on your car and
you can unlock other cars right it is
like oh if it's the same frequency a
year have you tried yeah they're gonna
be like what is that person oh it's so
funny because Tesla's have built in
sensory for they the camera so they can
record right yeah person doing their arm
you know I haven't tried that I would I
think some of the reasons like I've
heard that from like a like Honda they
only have so many of the same keys
Wow yeah no I haven't tried that you'll
be interesting she's an awesome
she's an ethical hacker Sasha Tesla's in
a parking lot and you forget where you
park I mean you could hold like it's
kind of the interesting thing and that's
kind of what like sparked my interest
because when I got the the Tesla Valley
cards that come with your car I'm like
looking and I'm like it's just a black
card that says Tesla and then a little
picture on the back for like IKEA
instructions this is how you use it but
there's because I was thinking I'm like
what happens if you're going somewhere
and you valet park your car and there's
50 other tests list and everyone gives
them the same key hmm how do they know
which one goes to which so that's right
it's not like the car that we can push
the button and hear the horn beep do you
get the same they have like 50 of the
same like that card in there and you're
like which one goes to which is bear key
Spears yeah so that's another thing too
yeah you fight you can have up to six
keys paired with it so um it's funny and
you can have your mobile like your
mobile device still so I still use my
phone because you know you can like you
know turn on your air or your heat
before you get to your car really funny
is somebody pointed this out and like
one of the YouTube videos so my phone
you can have a phone name I have an
iPhone and my phone's name is virus so
because I always think it's funny when
people have airdrop on and it's like
public so you just send them something
they're like oh I got a virus is sending
me but my phone was like paired in one
of the videos when I was originally like
doing some like document stuff and
somebody's like hey your car has a virus
I'm like what are they talking about and
then sure enough you could see like in
the background that one of the other
keys that was paired was the name on my
phone which was virus and like that's
funny there was a question you were
talking about the polymer that you had
to have this in robed and before it was
inserted at underscore underscore giant
underscore wanted to know if you've had
any problems or concerns over rejection
or if you
to manage that with medication or like
how does that work for you yeah somebody
did ask me if I had to take
anti-rejection meds it's it's not an
organ transplant right so it's it's a
foreign body I mean it's something in
your in your arm that could be rejected
all right so you must take the muscle or
it's not an organ
it's literally under like in the dermis
layer under the skin so it would be like
getting a dermal piercing it's the only
way I can think that makes total sense
and I mean I don't like I have my ears
pierced but like you know like the
people that even have like this part
pierce or yeah I guess it's a little bit
deeper than that but it's ya know I
haven't had I will say one one thing was
it's right where I like putting my arms
for like where my keyboard is yeah so
that's like kind of a you feel that bump
there so that's like some things I said
can you feel it and I'm like it's kind
of like a mental part like I know it's
there but like yeah yeah I know I don't
I don't wake up in the middle of the
night and I'm like I feel you like it's
not disturbing my everyday routine okay
was it like was it scary to have this
done or to you know as you're
approaching the actual surgery to have
this inserted were you scared like I
tried every way pretty much I was trying
to get in through the car through the
computer way and kind of when I realized
that the way it was running as far as
like the on the Java applet on the
secure server cut so yeah I roped in my
friend AM L at dangerous things I'm like
all right we're gonna I'm like we're
just gonna encase it in biopolymer and
I'm gonna I'm just gonna do it and I
wanted to go with a doctor because I was
thinking I'm like if other people want
to do this and they're in the Dallas
area where I live I want other people to
be able to go to a doctor and then the
discussion came my friend that does
video I'm like alright well I want to
document this and then the doctors like
alright well
I don't want to be recorded right that's
like hmm it was just fine that's his
medical license I totally respect that
yeah and then it happened again and then
it happened again
so finally you know just talk to him
Alan he's like just have a body
modification person do this because body
modification people are day doing way
more intensive things they're completely
like familiar with the process the
sanitary stuff and it was yeah I was
super scared going in I laugh because
I'm like he had like little candy things
and I'm like did I get that candy he's
like oh it's only for blood Sugar's low
yeah no I think I was yeah no I was
definitely scared I don't know how to
describe it but yeah it's like why are
you afraid of something that you're
doing to yourself
right so it's cuz it's the fear of the
unknown yeah ironically enough I don't
like physical pain you know that seems
ayran like I have a bunch of tattoos but
yeah I was really worried about I'm like
oh my gosh how bad is this gonna hurt
but it's the strange things that you do
when you really want something well you
you you've achieved it and it works
right like how is it as far as
functionality goes for you at this point
because you've healed others two days it
didn't work and so this is another thing
like as soon as it went viral it was
super weird because I was I and to Seyi
had pre-ordered let me start at the
beginning really clear we should say the
video went viral yeah yeah context is
important it is yes mr. choy show so I
had um I actually got my Tesla and 2018
the day after I got back from death
crime so I had started working on that
project thin so when I went to Def Con
this year in 2019 I was like alright I
want to finish this project and you know
this is like a year-long thing it's also
bittersweet because I started it at Def
Con and I'm kind of like completing it
so when I posted that video had no I
like what was going on and then people
are like oh she didn't show it working
and I'm like I'm at like DEFCON it's
been two days people and yes so the
thing is if you ever had surgery
stitches if you've been to the dentist
anything like that your body and your
skin is inflamed there's fluid around
and stuff it's swollen
so the reed range I mean it was here I
can find a picture and send it to you
but I mean it was a nice big lump on
there so it didn't work like the first
day okay I'm scared and then the second
day it didn't work and I'm like okay now
I'm scared and then the third day I have
a few other like proc smart readers and
RFID that I use for my computer and I
was testing yeah and it read on that and
I so I know that the chip is not damaged
yeah it's still just swollen because the
Reed range on the Tesla is a little bit
different I also had to play around with
like the angle of the antenna for my arm
okay um so like some people are like why
did you do this on the outside of the
car specifically because of the antenna
angle okay
she found ways that work the best as far
as positioning go the you found ways
that work the best for you yeah that's
like something that you have to like
just figure out cuz that's the thing
when you're doing something new like
same with my phone yeah
first dance to get into the car I have a
question actually alright wait talking
about the attendant everything so it can
send and receive signals do you have any
trouble at the airport because you're
always going to cons everything else
like do you have any trouble with that
kind of you have a big concern right
stores or anything no so like the metal
like in a tooth filling or your glasses
that has more metal than the amount of
metal that are in the the chips that I
have though I will say when I got my
first chip implant I was super nervous
because I had read there weren't any
problems going through airport security
but still I was like alright I'm gonna
print out like the datasheet for this
like
parts and stuff if I have any problems I
go through and then I can like explain
but the problem about going through
airport security when you're trying to
explain things usually electronics you
get a bill of materials list and the
Bill of Materials list abbreviation is a
bomb so security and having like a list
that says bomb list is probably not a
good idea the things we don't
necessarily think of now Amy had
actually recorded videos and the actual
process of the creation of the Tesla
hack so you can go to Amy double D comm
to actually follow along with that
series and I'd encourage you to do so
especially if you're just interested in
learning the process that she's gone
through visit our website to be able to
follow along with that
Amy moving along oh yes you know like go
like this now how are you using your
superpowers at this point to help young
girls in stem we talked a little bit
about that at the top of the show yeah
so that's been something like same
education is for people that don't know
this science technology engineering
mathematics and now kind of you know the
arts as well so I guess this is the
third year so three years ago I started
this scholarship program for girls and
stem through the national video game
museum here in Dallas and I completely
funded that myself it's not very much
money but I put enough in there for five
years in the helps that it would kind of
grow this museum is founded by three
people and their families so that was
something it's like this weird I'm
trying to think of the best way to
describe that when I was going to
college I was pretty much the only girl
in all my programming classes I had one
other girl in one of my mathematics
classes but I think she was doing more
of like a simulation probability so I
used to specifically go out of my way
make sure I'd be like alright I'm not
gonna wear makeup
because I want to be taken seriously you
kind of feel you live this almost like
this double life and not even on purpose
and I think when I got a little bit
older I realized like man this is
exhausting you need to either be this
all-in-one like just go for it or just
keep you know don't do it at all and
it's it's really interesting cuz I was
like alright if I'm gonna help start
this scholarship program with the museum
I I was like first off I don't want
people to think I'm like rich or have
lots of money because that was like not
the case and I was like I even don't
feel it's very much money right but
price of education and stuff like that
is so expensive these days any bit helps
but my idea is like I had scholarships
when I was going to school and I
remember someone saying you know pay it
back pay it forward and every bit helps
and so I would like the scholarship to
grow like more than the five years that
I put into it and you know the filament
they've donated for the my filament
color like that that little bit like and
then I actually met the girl last year
that won the scholarship at the award
and it was really really interesting
because to me I'm like I alright it's
not very much money but she was like I
have so many little scholarships she's
like I would not be able to go to school
without this and she was and she was a
little shy at first but then we just
started talking about she was working on
some like algorithm stuff for some stuff
in C++ and she was just talking about
what she was doing and the general
excitement was like me to a tee like but
you don't have that other that I guess
that peer communication or that
encouragement I mean also I'm like
alright now there's the Internet you can
share your stuff yeah yeah I guess if I
can make a little bit of a difference
I still feel cheesy sometimes so cuz I
remember like when I my dad is an
accountant and I remember when I was
like all right I want a major in
programming in computer science okay so
I like made an Excel spreadsheet of like
what I could do with the computer
science
agree and because that was his language
he under understood like I'm a
accounting in the numbers and he's like
I spoke his language he's like okay he's
like you can you can like I know I don't
even feel that I'm not that old but I'm
like computer science was still kind of
a new thing when I was like going to
school right
and he's like he completely supported me
but it's you know it's still very much a
male-dominated industry yeah
true enough still still to this day but
yeah how do you keep like the deterrent
away from someone who's like hey I don't
I don't know if I I'm comfortable like
it's like hey I like to like computers I
like programming like code I like
fashion I like the data science but
sometimes the cultural of being around
either people that you feel know way
more than you or hate to say just like
majority of guys cuz that's pretty much
all I've worked with though I will say
I've had good feedback I've never had
like when I was at Marvel I still talked
to my three bosses who are all like a
super positive influence in my life and
I hate hearing stories and people say
that I'm a rare exception but so we can
just so we can change that you can
change that and through your scholarship
program I think I think your help it'll
grow like that's that's the thing it's
like to me it's it's so weird cuz I'm
like alright at first I didn't want my
name and attached to it because I'm like
oh that's not why I'm doing that right
okay I just want to give back in some
way that I can and you know help this
museum because they've done a lot and
they want to do the scholarship program
and they you know they'll actually match
like whatever I donate yeah it's weird
to think that like you could change
someone's life
because yeah so super random other
really really quick yes likes Perlman
but when I I went to Australia to teach
a few workshops for a museum there last
summer and I was going to Adelaide so
it's a 22-hour flight from Dallas my
flight got canceled I was at the airport
for three days
and no he's a very very long exhausting
thing and then they got me on a flight
from like Dallas to Melbourne and then I
had like a hopper plane something like
that I was so exhausted and then on my
hour flight to Adelaide it was like in
the morning time i sat next to this
stranger and somehow this conversation
came up he's actually a PhD I believe
electrical engineer and he has a
daughter that's one say she's seven or
eight and discussion came up of how you
could how you can get young girls into
you know just STEM education in general
like that's it's always a commerce
station and it was super weird I was
talking about this electronic board I
have from Adafruit it's a circuit
playground you don't want to do any
soldering it's a really easy use a
circuit Python 2 code and some of the
block code and it's a very rewarding
thing because you can make some stuff
light up you can make it move with like
a motion control come on and I happen to
have one in my bag not on I have no idea
why it was still in my bag and I'm like
I'm like I have one so I just gave it to
him and then he's like oh and then they
saw one he is the airport that they're
picking me up and he's like oh you're
here for an event and I'm like yeah so
actually when he went home with his
daughter he showed her she was so
excited they made a little fairy wand
then came to the event and she showed me
like what she that was like I'm like
this is why I was meant to miss my
flight for like three days
unreal how things work yeah they're a
yeah so like that's at the same time
like when I teach someone like the
workshops and stuff for kids and adults
they'll say hey why why don't you learn
programming or something that like a lot
of aitana for an hour of code for this
girl's workshop there they're like oh we
like fashion and this I'm like so you
know that like they believe it's
Pinterest that was formed on like on
data science pretty much like this you
know there's two girls that are
programmers that liked fashion and that
I'm like you can like both you can like
all the things so when I teach these
workshops sometimes I'll teach like a
basic thing like this is you know your
solder
something they're like oh why do I have
to do this and then I'll apply it to all
like 3d print all these little swords
they'll solder a piece and they'll put
it in and then be like oh they have that
same moment I have when they realize
you're like oh like something just
clicks in your mind and you're like oh
it's like how it's made it's like this
full connection yeah
good that's saying you have to like join
my my church of Elon Musk
the Internet has called me but it's that
that general interest of finding
something because no no like when people
say what do you like how do you find
something you're interested in like
that's not my problem like my problem is
I need to give up something but for a
lot of people they don't know what they
like so I think the idea is maybe just
say yes to doing more things like you
know are going to more workshops or
right yeah yeah I mean the Tesla hack is
just like one facet of what you have
done there's so much more to a me double
D than then meets the eye and and that
the media is generally like reporting
because this thing blew up like this is
what people are hearing about you know
so that I've learned hard lessons from
the media as far as like it's only been
a month folks yeah but like you know my
friend my friend a thing I'm like why
does this company want me to upload my
video to their platform like I did
monetizing them I think ya know
subscribe give me double D yeah like hey
I'm like first off that's not why I did
it it's kind of funny it's like this
game of your play the game telephone
retail one person one thing it's like to
the end when I read something article my
name's not even spelled right and some
like back service you know mislead but
like a lot of the media stuff you know I
I'm not stupid I'm pretty sure they
probably picked up on you know I have
green hair I'm a female and Tesla those
are like three hot
hapax right sure so I fall in those
little Venn diagram of niche markets so
but some of them didn't even link like
my like my tech stuff that I've been
working on sure and that kind of that's
what like I think is probably like
thrown me off kind of about some of the
media stuff in general and I'm like this
is not like a hey this is gonna be real
fun to do this weekend like there was a
lot of time and research went into this
yeah and it's well I think like our
viewers are not going to judge you based
on first impressions by the hair and the
tattoos and you know sure okay so don't
judge media by what what you've had to
deal with that what I'm saying him as my
general yeah so I will say like the
verge I had great experience with Andrew
from the verge so he he saw that it went
like live there I guess he sent me an
email and then he actually sent me a
message on Twitter he's like hey I saw
you posted this I wanted to ask you
something but I see you're at Def Con so
you're probably not checking your email
and I'm like oh I like you because you
did your research and you would install
like you know you kind of saw like the
scope of it yeah and also super random
he was he's like in the expanse like
sci-fi community so he was actually at
DragonCon so we got to meet up when we
were there cool so I'm like that was a
good experience it's such a community
isn't it yeah but yes I won't say won't
judge all media but yeah thank you thank
you
when you and I talked back and forth
I felt I almost had to put like this
skeptic wall when I start to just email
people back and forth now because a lot
of times they just like they wanted my
video and then later alright I'm just
gonna keep it the content under me
that's not why I did it I'm not making
any money off of it but you you should
you rightly should I mean go ahead and
do that you're the research you put into
it and the questions do you thought to
ask me those are all I appreciate that
and I know that that's your time as well
because I think if anything you can give
someone is your time so
yeah I appreciate that Amy as kind of a
final thought in wrapping up our
interview this week you you spoke about
I mean with the Tesla hack there was
fear there you were a little afraid to
actually have this done but you overcame
that and just using that as an analogy
not specifically that we all face fear
and we all have a fear of failure I
think that as humans we all just
experience that especially as we're just
learning and growing up and figuring out
where we want to be in life so what
would you say to a young person who is
currently facing that fear yeah failure
is the normal thing but I think from
failure comes iteration and iteration is
either what makes you say yes I want to
do this or no I don't want to do this or
holy crap I learn something new so from
all of this I you know I designed some
of my own RFID antennas I did a lot of
research on that and the first of them
didn't work and when I ordered some test
one's for my PCB boards from China and I
had to wait and I got it and I was so
excited to open it and it didn't work
that right that's a failure but you got
to look at all the other things that I
got there for that that research I put
myself on the pedestal thinking that's
gonna work right the first time
hahaha how do you know nothing of
hardware then but I also know I don't
want to make those antennas full-time
for the rest of my life but that failure
process is an iteration right and I also
find that that iterative process and
stuff that you failed actually apply to
other projects without even meaning to
or knowing and yeah it's like becomes
this entire like CV of your life the
universe and everything and
yeah I don't know it took completes it
becomes you right so um no no so like I
guess what you set your goals like what
do you think like he's gonna fail you're
like what and one thing I suck at is
time so like if my goal is to finish
this in an hour then I have failed but
yeah but you learn yourself when you as
you set goals for yourself and you I
wouldn't say set failures but assignment
expectations but like look at all this
stuff that you've learned about yourself
and then getting there yeah I like what
nomen says yeah in the in our chat and
you probably see it on your screen it's
a show you can read that fall down six
times and get up seven fall down six
times get up seven there you go missing
semicolon well Amy it has been a
pleasure having you here thank you for
all that you do and just be encouraged
and and know that you know there are
those of us that really are watching
with admiration and feeling inspired by
some of the things that you've been able
to achieve and thanks for being here
with us this week you find out all about
Amy double D's exploits and all the
things that she's up to on her website
Amy double D dot-com and the links are
below if you're watching this online
we've got to head over to the newsroom
Sasha if you're ready for us I sure AM
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Chinese police have arrested a fugitive
who'd been on the run for 17 years after
they used drones to spot his cave
hideout the world's most freakishly
advanced robot dog is now for sale
American entrepreneur Elon Musk has
given an update on his starship and
super heavy rocket system and an injured
tortoise who lost its shell and a fire
has become the world's first recipient
of a 3d printed shell these stories are
coming right
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
dot TV newsroom covering the week's top
tech stories of the slave Linux bias
I'm Sasha Rickman and here at the top
stories for following this week Chinese
police have arrested a fugitive who had
been on the run for 17 years after they
used drones to spot his cave hideout the
63 year old had been jailed for human
trafficking but escaped from a prison
camp in 2002 he had been living in a
tiny cave cut off from human interaction
for a number of years young shang police
received clues about the man's
whereabouts in early September those
clues led them to the mountains behind
his hometown in Yunnan province in
southwest China after regular searches
failed to find anything authorities sent
additional drones to help the officers
the drones eventually spotted a blue
colored steel tile on a steep cliff as
well as traces of household garbage
nearby police then moved in on foot and
found song in a small cave where he'd
been hiding according to the police the
man had been living in seclusion for so
long that it was difficult for him to
communicate with the officers state
media said the man had used plastic
bottles to get his drinking water from a
river and branches of trees to make a
fire he has been sent back to jail it's
unreal that he's disappeared for that
long and then for drones I was part of
search and rescue efforts the fourth my
drones for air support and okay we have
to look for cows you know cows got out
their fence damn yeah
cows are expensive you know so they they
hired us and we didn't eat those cows
very great use for this technology how
long have groans been exactly this is
not something he would have planned for
in 2002 no he'd be like what what is
this what are those oh I see the poor
guy but I mean he's an escaped convict
yeah still that must have been a world
of confusion holy would have been
Skinner he having a whole bunch of
police drones
you think about that if you've never
seen such a technology I don't know
maybe he had maybe he was like sneaking
it to town and and keeping up on the
news I don't know I mean and then when
they say that they were problems
communicating I don't think his base
communication skills would be a problem
but think about in 17 years how general
language has changed it would be very
interesting to really get a lot more
information about that interaction hmm
interesting indeed mm-hmm the world's
most freakishly advanced robot dog is
now for sale we've watched the spot
robot Quadra Fred grow up in a valve
from its earlier earliest days is a
larger more cumbersome beast too a
carefully refined machine capable of
pulling trucks now maker Boston Dynamics
is putting the robot Robo dog on sale
the idea is not to provide a pet friend
a friendly pet that curls up in front of
the fire each evening though spot is
designed for industrial use whether
that's carrying goods through a
warehouse or inspecting a remote site
that human operators would find
difficult to get to with that in mind
you can't just put down your cash and
walk away with a spot instead Boston
Dynamics will lease the spot bot to
companies with genuine uses for it
prices vary and on work request but
think in the tens of thousands of US
dollars a nimble robot that climbs
stairs and traverses rough terrain with
unprecedented ease yet is small enough
to use indoors is the description on the
Boston Dynamics sales page quote built
to be a rugged and customizable platform
spot autonomously accomplishes your
industrial sensing and remote operation
needs end quote for your money you get a
robot that can operate for 90 minutes
between charges with a maximum speed of
1.6 m/s which is about 3.5 miles per
hour it can work in temperatures of
between negative 20 degrees Celsius
which is negative 4 degrees Fahrenheit
and 45 degrees Celsius which is 113
degrees Fahrenheit and has a
360 degree camera vision that enables it
to avoid obstacles spot can operate in
the rain too and is able to carry
payloads of up to 14 kilograms which is
nearly 31 pounds buyers can add viscose
bespoke sensors and hardware modules to
spot to adapt it for a variety of tasks
that is so cool it has been neat to see
spots evolution now I just want to take
it back also to the last story could you
imagine if they also use spot drones and
spot oh goodness you have a dog climbing
up the side of the mountain what is this
like Search and Rescue though like
that's pretty cool yeah you can go in
like a disaster zone or that's what I'm
thinking like a volatile area you could
send these into to find with 360-degree
vision right to find like lost people or
lost pets or whatever how many pounds is
it there 30 pounds you can hold 30
pounds of KFC 31 pounds so because
Boston Dynamics isn't selling them
they're leasing them does that mean that
they retain some of the rights to
release the information of what they're
used for because how fun would it be
then to not like to see the adventures
of spot right like maybe Boston Dynamics
I'll like has you sign a waiver saying
you must share pictures or you must
really like to know what spot and that'd
be used more yeah there's so much
potential there now we've got to take a
quick break the crypto report and more
of this week's top tech news are coming
up
don't go anywhere
[Music]
given an update on the starship and
super heavy rocket system he plans to
use the new vehicles to send people to
the Moon and Mars and also to move them
swiftly around here
the SpaceX CEO is in the process of
building prototypes and plans to start
flying them in the coming months the mk1
version of his starship would begin
high-altitude tests in the next one to
two months he said the entrepreneur told
an audience gathered at the company's
Boca Chica Texas facility where the
prototype had been assembled quote this
is the most inspiring thing I've ever
seen this thing is going to take off fly
to 65,000 feet about 20 kilometers and
come back and land that is a giant thing
it's really going to be pretty epic to
see that thing take off and come back
and poke the 50 meter tall starship will
eventually fly atop its booster the
super-heavy and both parts of the new
rocket system which together will stand
118 meters tall on the launch pad are
being designed to be fully reusable
making propulsive landings at the end of
their mission if we if we get two orbits
in about six months then and we have a
remember this is designed to be a
reusable rocket so a reasonable booster
reusable ship so we can do many flights
to prove out the reliability very
quickly so whereas with an expendable
vehicle you have to build if you want to
do ten flights let's say to prove out
the viability of an expandable vehicle
you need to build and destroy ten
vehicles whereas we can do ten flights
you know it within basically a 10 days
so when I say rapid reusability I mean
you know what you can fly if like you
can fly the booster
20 times a day you fly the ship three or
four times a day that's what I mean by
reusability and the only reason to ship
it takes more time than that is more
time than the booster is that you need a
couple of you need you know three or
four orbits to synchronize for the ship
so that it is over you know like don't
get those complicated thing of orbital
dynamics and the rotation of the earth
relative to satellite but as anyone
who's like knows the space you know the
track of a satellite unless it's an
equatorial satellite is it's a
sinusoidal track on the earth it unless
it's equatorial or sun-synchronous so so
it it you know launching sort of due
east you have to kind of wait for the
orbits just the the ground path to sync
up with the launch light and that's the
only reason it really takes like you
know maybe six hours or something like
that to sync up and land back at Boca or
the Cape you know one of the really
interesting interesting things to
contemplate is the total mass to orbit
capability of a large reusable system
where you have a significant fleet in
operation the if you've got something
like Sasha where you've got maybe 150
tons capable to orbit and the ship can
fly'
is capable of say theoretically flying
four times a day but you know they call
it like 75 percent uptime so theoretical
three times a day three or sixty-five
days a year so that's like about a
thousand flights a year for the ship the
booster can do a lot more than that this
is obviously max theoretical
and your butt's you know 150 tons that
service 150,000 tons to over per year
per ship and if you've got say ten ships
you would have a hundred and your one
and a half million tons sobut per year
20 ships you've got three million tons
over two year I think the total rest of
world capacity if you take all rockets
on earth including Falcon the total
capacity to orbit I think is around two
to three hundred tons
currently total earth capacity to orbit
is about two to three hundred tons if
all rockets launched at max rate so
we're talking about something that is
with with the fleet of starships a
thousand times more than all earth
capacity combined all all other rockets
combined would be 0.1% including ours
but you kind of need that if you're
going to build a city on Mars so it's
got to be done mr. musk who is well
known for his aggressive scheduling said
quote this is going to sound totally
nuts but I think we want to try to reach
orbit in less than six months provided
the rate of design and improvement and
manufacturing improvement continues to
be exponential I think that that's at
that's accurate within a few months and
quote while the scheduling often slips
eventually he does tend to deliver Wow
this is happening it's happening it's
probably not happening in six months
within a few months of six months yeah
six months but anyhow the fact that it's
reusable the fact you know what I love
that that was yeah that speaks to me
like to I don't I don't even like using
reusable water bottles like I don't want
a spaceship the disposable ones yeah
so I just I like that it'll be able to
safely I assume land in a in a
controlled manner and be reuse so that's
it and and and when you think about
what's going to be necessary in order to
this is sci-fi like it we're actually
we're talking about this in reality I'm
thinking in order to to place people on
Mars or to Colin ate the moon ality now
yeah there's one question though
will there be a frequent flyer program
no it's it's it's really exciting
I'm actually really more excited mainly
because I love Earth but I'm more
excited for the fact that travel around
Earth like teacher yeah that would be so
I'd love to visit Australia in about a
half hour exactly you know be back for
lunch you know yeah written for dinner
well you're a pilot so you kind of have
that sense because I just watching for
that little note um so like when the
airspace is closed for this I'm but I I
see your flight plans though and I think
man how would have taken me six hours
and you just fly somewhere have lunch
and fly back I know it's just like yeah
we're going to Mars and that's that's
how like it's just gonna be reality yeah
I mean it's not gonna be in six hours
but yeah but that's actually might yeah
Wow an injured tortoise who lost its
shell in a fire became the world's first
recipient of a 3d printed shell when it
comes to animals who are vulnerable in a
forest fire tortoises probably aren't
the first to come to mind however
they've been among the many victims of a
fire in Brazil one of the Turtles who
was injured in the brush fires was in
desperate need of medical attention they
called him Freddie he was badly burned
and his shell was actually destroyed
from the fire Turtles depend on their
shells so Freddie not having his was a
big problem a group of veteran
veterinarians a dental surgeon and a
designer had only recently formed a
group called the Animal Avengers that
help animals who have been struck by
tragedy Freddie was their first patient
and has
saved through the innovative use of
technology Freddie now lives at the home
of one of the veterinarians who helped
with the prosthetic it's so neat
I actually really picture that as they
save more and more animals they're just
gonna adopt them as they say for those
really this veterinarian and the dental
surgeon and everybody they're just all
gonna have this random like animals so
cool I love it when tech comes into play
to like save animals and the absolutely
anytime like I love tech stories where
like our our human life is helped or
improved and to think that they're doing
things for animals as well and that's so
super cool we've got to take a real
quick look at the crypto report if we
may just to get a look at where things
stand on the crypto currency market as
of 1800 hours Eastern Time on Wednesday
October 2nd 2019 Bitcoin dropped about
three hundred and sixty-two dollars u.s.
over the past week very volatile and
we're not really sure where it's going
it's down at eight thousand two hundred
and sixty one dollars and fifty four
cents US this week Facebook Libre still
not not trading super steady yep at zero
litecoin is a holding fairly steady it's
down a little bit at fifty five sixty
eight US aetherium is at one hundred and
seventy seven dollars and 53 cents u.s.
Manero is losing a little bit of 55
eighty two and the two that are holding
real steady are the ones that are it
looks like the micro coin market is just
holding where it is it's not really
fluctuating at the like at the satoshi
level at all we're looking ATS Scalla
this week again at 0.33 ten thousandth
of a cent and turtle coin at zero point
two four remember if you're going to
invest or have any involvement in the
cryptocurrency market it's always open
and it's always volatile it's 24/7 so
things could flip on their heads
overnight and through the night so when
you invest make sure that you invest
only
you can afford to lose big thanks to
Rory W Nash in our community of viewers
for submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I am Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie
Ferguson I've had every bro we've got to
take a really quick break stick around
well thanks for joining us this week I
hope you've enjoyed the show that's all
the time that we have now next week it's
all about the Oroville but this time
around I don't want you to get
secondhand information so the Orval
editor and associate producer Tom Kosta
Tino is going to be here also along with
visual effects producer Brooke Nazca and
senior concept designer Lex Kassar
they're all going to be here join us for
an exclusive glimpse behind the scenes
of what's going on at the Orville as the
cast and crew are preparing to begin
shooting season 3 in just two weeks time
we'll see you next week take care
everybody
