I have three kids at home
we all have devices my wife myself I've
got a phone in my pocket at all times
except at night when I need to charge it
mm-hmm my kids each have you know we
have a variety of phones that the kids
share for video games and for chatting
and things like that so there's always
stuff hanging out of wall outlets oh my
got a wall wart with a cable and people
fighting over hey he's using my charger
and yeah always it's just the way it is
so Jeff you talked about a couple weeks
ago how you've come up with a solution
for kind of centralizing your charging
station and a really made me think and I
started looking and I found a pretty
fantastic device that that I think
you're you're going to show us today
cord yeah so I mean you're right I do
have another device it's not the G chord
I bought it around Christmas time yeah
and it is a six bank docking station
that allows the kids to place their
phones but we have again three kids but
between them they have their old phones
and their new phones right yeah they
don't want to give up the old phones
because well my minecraft files are not
that old yeah so all in all I think
there's like six phones and two tablets
Center and it's like there's same deal
Chargers everywhere and one goes missing
like this is ridiculous but we also had
the issue of they were sneaking them at
night well like we need a centralized
location where it's like I know where
they all are so we got this charging
port and they all just sit there and so
yeah it's been it's been great and so
does this have a feature where if the
kids grab it after 9:00 it zaps them no
feature request that's what I'm telling
the kids if you touch the phone after
9:00 while it's on the charging station
it will delete everything charging
station sounds like a great idea for me
because it puts everything in one place
in it and it gets rid of all the cable
clutter yes can we see what you have
here okay so this is from G chord it is
a six poor
ten amp USB charging station now I will
say right off the hop would caught me
off guard from the boxes at the side
that says quad USB like but it's six
port okay why is it quad USB it's
because you've got different types of
USB so there's a there's three piece
eight pin there's two piece micro USB
and then one type see interestingly
enough so my phone is Type C but mine is
the only one that's type c within our
household everything else is USB micro
although there is one Apple device which
uses the old Apple interface so all
right you came with some cables it does
come on table okay but I'm gonna open
this up so I'm just gonna slice through
that and place that over here so what do
we have in here starts with I like that
it's ten amps so you've got like one
cable going to the outlet and you don't
have to have like a whole bunch of
charges right it's just one thing nice
alright so it is a six port or six
channel so alright start with here's
your various cables yeah okay so these
are oh so it came with little short like
one foot one foot cables these are I've
got a USB C and two USB micros yeah so
they're just nice little short cables
around your Apple connections okay so it
came with it so these are just like for
your Android phones yeah and then these
are for Apple so if you are using this
but if you are using this and all you
have is Android 3 is not going to be
enough so you need to make sure that
you've got the right okay so when you
buy this what do you do Jeff you buy
some extra one so we've got some nice
color coated ones which my kids would
absolutely love because then they'd be
able to say well they've got the pink
one I've got the blue one and you know
solves everybody's problems based on the
color coding perfect things you have to
do to like stop fights at home it's
crazy oh those are nice oh yeah these
are very nice answer these do not come
with it so you have to buy separately so
whatever works for you so we got three
with it while two USB micro and one USB
see yes and we've got a bunch just a
pack assorted pack here now everything
they see is available at cat5 TV slash
charger you're right these are nice yeah
chose these are like wound woven those
nice cables but they're color-coded so
the kids will love that all right so I
have unboxed okay really what we have is
you have the base unit mm-hmm is there
an hour cord I'll plug in the power cord
while you're describing the power cord
you have the instructions that are just
not simple folow not a wall wart no just
so you know okay so this is just gonna
go right into your your outlet nicely
and your plastic plexi dividers so these
are like heavily sealed let's separate
these puppies somehow I it's like air
compressed oh they're vacuum yeah vacuum
sealed oh here we go this one well it's
not vacuum sealed they're just a psych
on either side yeah okay you know
someone feels vacuums this has got power
now Jack Oh perfect okay well I'm not
gonna plug it in yet because I'm gonna
be playing around with these but all
right is there special way these go in
does not look oh yes there is okay so
you can't really see it but there's a
little notches here which prevents you
from putting this in backwards so if I
do that it's not going in because
there's a little yeah yeah lobules
they're not then they Oh clicks in
perfect all right grab another one do
you want me to help I can help this
takes three folks that's teamwork crazy
how many invite their friends Oh buddy
Chucky's does it take to put dividers on
a cell phone charging station all right
okay so we can get two phones in there
look at this team action though much
faster this is the one I struggled with
okay getting these suckers in there I
feel like if you're the person who
changes the garvik at home and then you
need to open the bag the new bag that's
all stuck together you know yes all
right
Alaskans going in okay very
alright USBC it has been assembled okay
okay so right away what I can see on it
you have your physical switch button for
power yeah your connectors are all on
one side interestingly enough so the one
the unit I have at home the connectors
are on either side so I've got three and
three Oh what I like about that is it
prevents all the cords from jumbling up
on one side right this one they're all
on one side so your device is gonna have
to sit because it's a short cable with
the charging port going that way so
depending on any case you have on your
phone or any anything like that it may
cause problems but just for plugging it
in oops
of course it's USB you got to do it
three different ways that's right yeah
yeah so but it just sticks in quite
simply alright there's pretty simple
tech folks but yeah it really I did a
USBC for my phone perfect it's already
connected to my phone because I thought
hey we can actually try like see okay
then see if it explodes or if it charges
it's gonna do one of those two things
yeah those are the only two options
you're gonna learn one day the way to
plug it in I know I haven't so okay so
that is plugged in via charge or the
actual power cable connects here to the
side I do like that it's just a single
power cord and then just a couple of oh
yeah it is charging so I've powered it
on yeah you can see that no no it was
off now it's on because the blue lights
kicked on Oh neat I don't know if you
can see that yeah you guys see that blue
light right there
I don't know if I if I were to dim the
lighting in the studio here I don't know
if you'd be able to see that a little
bit better maybe yeah yeah that's a
little blue light now and when I turn it
off I noticed that it's only the blue
light is only on on the one that the two
that are plugged in oh oh my god
look at you you observant fella so yeah
okay so you've got the power and then
the one that it's in again more that's
see what happened
so let's slung everything and to connect
sure connect avons you're fine I didn't
get my phone
what are you looking for see ya I only
have one see alright you gotta buy the
right cables folks but there's like a
mine the one well I'm using it on my
phone but where's the threaded once
those are all see a USB micro okay so
you didn't get diversified pack okay all
right well let's test it this way if I
move the connector to another port yeah
cool look at that so you actually see
the blue lights up
Oh USB see as well yeah spc sorry sorry
okay so in there it is charging this one
has I believe built-in surge protection
of stuff like that one of the computers
yeah so it has built-in surge protection
it also has intelligent charging with
over voltage overcharge and overcurrent
protection nice mine does not have that
and truthfully when I was looking for a
banking station that wasn't something I
was thinking of I just wanted to be a
multi to have all the phone's outer
parts yeah exactly
so that's a nice very nice feature and
it is 10 am 50 watt total power what I
don't see though is fast church I don't
see that either and it's a good comment
because that's one of the questions
we're gonna get so ya know it looks like
it's just straight like just regular
regular charge power yep now this
particular one now I'm sure those exist
but I mean we're talking about charging
six devices simultaneously which is
pretty impressive it's pretty good from
a single power I also like the stability
of this one Jeff it's very solid doesn't
move now one thing I noticed about the
one that I had at home for the life mate
I can't think of the model or the brand
that it is there's an eye out there like
tell there's tons yeah search for them
but what I wanted to check with yours is
the gap between the placement spots so
my phone has a bit of a dip on the back
right where it bigger
yeah it is thicker and so your phone
sits quite nicely it's leaned back when
I put mine in because of that it sits up
there's pretty much okay does that now I
said it'll forward bothers them well
what it does create a problem is if you
have if you're trying to organize all
your devices succinctly it doesn't work
as well if one of them is falling
forward it bounces them all around
especially if you utter diode your
phones when you put them in the charger
no but for the one I have at home I have
to do it in a certain order because of
the different case sizes oh one goes
forward they all follow okay knocks them
out so okay aware of that like all these
things he wouldn't even think about
exactly because of the the gap I mean
that's that's finger width that's it so
it's not like it's a big gap if you have
a tablet app your tablet's gonna sit
fairly snug yeah yeah so be aware of
that but otherwise that's it that's a
nice little okay the suckers small any
guesses any guesses iPod
first-generation no ice crazy
it doesn't even like when they came with
with like full touchscreen but that fits
quite nicely but yeah I mean if you have
a tablet or something it's gonna sit a
little bit higher and you can see like
mine is back on and that because that
little knob is not there but if you had
a tablet with a thicker case it's gonna
sit straight up there's no give and the
chance with that is if you accidentally
bump it you could potentially break the
plastic just be well yeah well yeah I
guess but I mean you're gonna find a
safe place to put this kind of site yeah
plain and simple so but it keeps it in a
centralized location and allows you you
know especially if you have multiple
devices at your home to organize
everything you have all your phones
there you you know maybe you've got
young kids it's like get off the phone
that's your spot where you go this is
the phone charging sport yeah it's not
in the rooms at night it's a central
location you know where every phone is
and it's like you didn't plug it in this
is kind of what I'm thinking like if if
this works is a great charger which it
looks like it's it's fantastic for this
as a parent I'm gonna hide every other
charger in the house yes and it's just
here okay when your phone's dead put it
on the charger I don't got a charger
because we've updated to one of the you
know something like this at home yeah I
have so many wall connectors now
like what am i doing meme or raspberry
pi's that's exactly what yeah yeah so
yeah thanks John
it comes in one year limited warranty
which is kind of nice normal wear and
tear seals abuse misuse my cover damage
trying to see if there's anything else
that's important to mention from the
instructions I'm not seeing it mmm I
like that it has the surge protection
and everything else because your wall
wart you're just how many times have you
just plugged your phone into the wall
exactly what happens if there's a power
surge or something mm-hmm so that's kind
of a bonus as well yep nice so yeah
that's it it is the G chord six port 10
amp USB charging station specifically
the black color there you go go to a
cat5 dot TV slash charger if you're
interested in that particular one or of
course follow that link and then you can
find various alternatives as well Amazon
it's kind of cool that way you'll see
some of the other options that are
similar but different if you need quick
charge then I guess that would be really
the deciding factor this one does feel
like it's really like quite sturdy yeah
and I say that like it really does it
feels sturdy you know really good I
didn't even notice it it's got like
rubber grip pads in there yeah I felt
that when I put my sole you know which
is kind of nice holds the phone in place
mm-hmm so that's okay
well I will say in having used one of
these now there's one thing that makes
me go you could take this to the next
level that zapping feature what the
zapping feature would be amazing
cordless well-core actually cordless
would be kind of cool if these had
cordless charging plates but no yeah to
allow one USB that Allah that does data
sync for a computer so all six would be
plugged in you plug it into your
computer and allow you want it to be a
hub as well how cool would that work huh
yes that would be a nice feature I guess
I think that's a whole new level
yeah but then every phone would show up
is it as a hard drive when you plug in
your your charger no but think about
nightly syncs like you got all your
family's phone backup your family phones
yeah that would
new feature kind of cool I don't know if
any of the devices do it but I mean now
that I've used one of these I'm like now
will be a cool feature yeah
[Music]
