Jeff Sasha have you ever upgraded your
phone yes and what happens when you do
that is it an onerous process in order
to get your phone service transitioned
over generally yes mm-hmm
yeah how do you go through like
upgrading my phone simply for that
purpose there's nothing a more than
having to redo everything what if you
have to change your phone number because
you got a new SIM have you ever had that
happen yes yeah annoying frustrating is
anything now way back I mean way back on
category five technology TV episode
number 385 I was way back yeah I took a
sim and I used a template in order to
for free modify that sim into a micro
sim and install it in this phone for my
wife cool okay that was cool now time
has gone on and the screen starts to
feel really tiny on this little samsung
galaxy LTE yeah and you realize okay now
it's time to upgrade let's get on to
something a little nicer like a yeah I
got a blackberry Prive kicking around so
let's stick the SIM card in that it's a
micro sim now because I converted it
manually okay but the BlackBerry pretty
modern phone is going to be a what nano
SIM yeah yeah like we're talking taking
it from this to this which was easy to
do manually but then we're taking it
down to this yeah you can't exactly
knife that you might be able to but
there's a little bit of a risk involved
so that the fact is you can transition
your plan over to a new SIM you can
contact the phone provider you can
actually port your number over to a new
SIM and you can go through that process
and and it'll be you it'll be fine it
cost you ten bucks for the new SIM yep
kostya what half hour to an hour on the
phone to actually get them to do that
for you or in the store if you happen to
deal with the store now we use
pay-as-you-go so it's not a store it's
like a virtual like it's phone based and
you buy your card minutes a gas-station
can
but it's a great deal so you know what
do you go through so is ten dollars plus
the time plus possibly like hey maybe it
won't work or whatever else what if we
could take this now so we've got the
micro-sim let's turn it into a nano-sim
but how can we do that because as you
say it's a little bit harder to do that
manually with an exacto knife because
you're now getting really really close
to the SIM chip and if you get a little
bit off you might actually damage it we
want to be careful right so I'm gonna I
feel like we should be saying don't try
this at home do try this at home if you
head over to cap five dot TV slash sim
and I'm gonna jump over here if you guys
want to transition me over to this
camera I'm gonna show you what I've come
up with so at cap five dot TV slash sim
we've got a micro sim cutter so this is
all that we need now okay I said ten
bucks is all it's going to take in order
to in order to do like buy a new SIM
right and then you got to go through the
onerous process of adapting your account
and porting your number and all that
stuff well this is the same price give
or take a buck or two and you don't need
to do that because we're gonna use the
same sim I'm getting in the Box here
we've got a cutter here we've got what
looks like some adapters we've got a sim
ejection tool and that is all that's in
the box so let's get in here so for the
same price I'm gonna be able to take
that sim that micro sim at this point
I've converted it already there we go
I've got another tool and another batch
of adapters so so if I go too small I
can then up up convert it to something
bigger cool all right so this is all it
is folks cat five TV slash sim and what
it what this does and now this is you
got to watch when you're buying these
things because some of them will just do
a particular type of SIM card but what
this actually does is it converts a sim
to a micro sim or a micro sim to a nano
sim and it will actually punch those out
just like a hole punch huh alright
that's the theory is it going to work
let's actually get into the phone and
let's see what's what's involved here I
want to see like is this actually doable
Jeff do you think I feel like saying it
has to be otherwise they wouldn't have
marketed the problem yeah why would we
why would we be doing a show about dish
if it didn't work yeah I hear ya I feel
that's the question we asked a lot of
times you have to make sure you don't
put it in backwards you're upside down
absolutely but as you know a SIM card is
not going to go in backwards or upside
down so this is the SIM card that the
micros the the micro sim that I created
from a sim see how close I already am to
the circuitry I don't want to risk it
using an exacto knife I want to use a
tool that is going to actually punch
this into a proper nano sim this is cool
so this device obviously I'm gonna be
able to reuse this this is apparently
going to convert this to the the proper
size for the phone so let's pop it in
there you put it in the right way
obviously well obviously Jeff obviously
would I ever mess something like that a
little bit because you did not read the
directions
okay I feel like you just need to say
okay see how this little notch corner
that's how you know it's in the right
like it in just shove it in just anxiety
going on over there are no instructions
here folks
this is a risk that I am going to take
on your behalf because hey made in China
and no instructions whatsoever I didn't
see a manual okay that's all there is to
it my friends it's like anti Jeff device
there's no instruction okay well what do
we know about a micro sim so or a nano
sim I should say Wow
I mean the chip the chip itself is the
same on all size Sims right okay that's
a little bit tighter there but it's the
shape of the whole this is making me
nervous too now that you've said it all
right it has a little diagram on here
oh oh that's the instructions that is
the instruction yes it's got that notch
yeah so I see the notch okay I know
which way to put it in there are no
hints as to okay well obviously I can
tell by looking at the size that that
one is going to actually punch out I'm
sorry that one is going to punch out a
micro-sim because it fits perfectly
right so here's a sim to a micro sim
this Beck I know you're doing this she
doesn't because she's nervous right now
all all of her contacts all of her text
messages everything are on here right
this is a smaller sim ask for permission
before you do this I am getting micro
sim nano sim I don't know they all run
together maybe yeah cut it cut it as a
micro first and then transition it down
to the nano III I would like to point
out the chatroom is not having a lot of
faith in you right about now they don't
believe in me it's not you it's the
process it's the process so which one
should you be going into I want to go
because you keep switching between the
two that's what I want to see okay so
let's get into the phone itself
all right weaving they've included this
this tool to eject the sim port there we
go okay there we are so that's how tiny
we need to get okay right so let's look
at the sim the the micro sim and see
that okay that needs to fit in there
just the door room for error zero
pokey doodle okay mister that's from the
phone now let's look at these as well so
we've got the three different adapters
here that they've included so if I were
to put my my micro sim on that you can
see okay that's gonna turn it into a sim
this one here is going to turn a micro
sim or a nano sim into a sim this one
here is going to turn a nano sim into a
micro sim see this is the thing the chip
is the same on each it's the size of the
the actual card okay so we do we try did
you back it up you can't back it up come
on now this is it this one here with a
micro sim in here feels pretty tight
like that feels like a good fit and if I
look at this okay that looks pretty good
right okay like that's not right of all
the shows we've done this one is giving
me extreme anxiety or is giving you
anxiety at the smallest right cuz you
can always adopt it bear this one okay
so this cutter is gonna take a sim and
turn it into a nano sim this one is
going to take a nano SIM and or a micro
sim and turn it into a nano sim this one
is going to take a sim and turn it into
a micro sim you guys follow me sim two
micro sim micro sim two nano sim sim two
nano sim
so I'm gonna put my micro-sim in the
middle here make sure she's aligned up
the way that I want make sure that it
matches the diagram on this side okay
Sasha why are you talking like that you
don't this is like you don't watch
that's really awkward TV show okay and
ready yes oh my gosh I'm nervous it's
gonna pop right out
oh there is no coming back from that
there's no coming back from that folks
so what I was saying is for ten bucks
you can buy a new SIM that you're gonna
have to go for all the hoops same price
and I can reuse that and I can redo this
as many times as I want give up for ten
bucks I don't have this anxiety okay
folks here we go okay this is gonna work
nano-sim into the phone's adapter there
we go oh yeah it okay okay
into the phone this is better than doing
within exact don't know it's safer I
would imagine so speak for yourself I'm
dying over here are you okay
get it in there that seems like a really
tight fit it's not coming well it's got
its got the it's got the sim in there
now
hoo-wee when we come back we're gonna
see if we've got a signal stick around
[Music]
okay breathe welcome back I am so
nervous right now I'm gonna work my way
around here all right you guys can
attest to the fact that all we've done
is turned it on took a commercial break
and here we are we're back back over to
the unboxing camera and ladies are we
ready yeah Jeff are you breathing I
trying to so the phone's booted the
phone is booted as you can see
make sure there's no yeah everything's
good now so do you have like contacts on
the sim oh yeah look okay this is good
oh no service but as you saw yes okay so
is there data on the sim like did you
upload contacts and stuff to it or well
let's not that we want to see all your
contacts on air but oh boy okay here's
what we're gonna do don'ts my friend it
stress me out okay okay dial your number
my number yeah dial your smart phone
number okay
you guys right turn your ringer on it's
on it's on silent but K cellular network
not available
okay hold on hold on hold on cuz it's
there oh oh no no it's gonna work for us
freakin goat baby I love you
I see that she is live right now put the
kids to bed oh okay okay it's hot in
here that's why Wilson is Rudel right
can you okay it says it's dialing yes
styling and is it ringing
I'm getting it I am getting a phone call
you're getting a phone call I am getting
a phone
I guess my marriage is saved I'm just
gonna decline that oh yeah and just like
oh my goodness so for the same price as
buying a sim without having to go
through any of the stress right we were
able to punch out a new nano SIM Jeff
we'll get back to to normal after this
he'll be fine you are you're getting for
Christmas cat five dot TV slash sim and
if you do it just like that your wife
your husband your girlfriend boyfriend
your friend whatever can react like that
and then you just be like magic yeah so
you can convert a sim to a micro sim to
a nano sim and now all of a sudden your
sim is compatible with any phone doesn't
matter what it is you don't have to bow
to the network to order a new sim or get
them to port things over it's just one
card and it works in every device thanks
to that little hole punch that I can now
reuse so if anyone needs to use that hey
it's work is done here
do I do I like look white because I feel
like I'm yeah just like oh yeah flush
iris there's no blood public - my
favorite right now it works ladies and
gentlemen cat5 dot TV slash sim yes
[Applause]
