[Music]
welcome back to the Crypt opponent it's
been an exciting week the market cap is
around 270 billion US dollars but there
have been some interesting developments
when we're looking at the price in total
10 coins went up in this last week by
over 25 percent the leader being carried
on oh that went up almost 50 percent in
the last seven days a reason is that
they announced now that they're getting
serious was the upgrade and so it looks
like we're going to have shall be soon
on the live Network but others like
cells whose vest change Zuleika maker
they all went up over 25% and only one
coin went down by only 15% so overall it
has been a very good week from the
investment point of view but also if we
look into what happened in regards to
the currencies let's take a look at
Bitcoin the last three weeks after the
having the men pool is almost empty
again the transactions are confirming in
a very fast way there has been no death
spiral for the miners even though we
lost nearly 50% of the hash rate and but
not all bounced back nicely and the next
difficulty adjustment will be just 10%
down so beacon really works like a
clockwork at the moment eutherian 2.0 is
the next subject has been a delay of
course we accustomed to that they're now
saying not July August they're saying
now this year but the interesting thing
is with phase zero which is the
implementation of proof of stake source
taking and the minimum you need to have
is 32 aetherium to be a become a
validator of the network and so somebody
is analyzing how many wallets are there
was at least 32 ether in them and that
has been increasing over the last 12
months so people are getting goes a
series in becoming a valid
next is Gemini and Samsung are starting
a partnership whereby Gemini will be
supporting the efforts in the North
American market so Canada and USA if
you're interested in buying cryptos
through three years samsung telephone
cell phone Gemini is one of the series
and good exchanges so it's a trustworthy
exchange and that partnership will mean
a lot because it will bring kryptos to
the masses the same time a an
interesting wallet has been developed
one that doesn't need any connectivity
to the Internet so unlike the treasure
and ledger this one and gray if it
doesn't it's currently being developed
but it has got already the highest
certifications it will be launched this
year and and it will be completely
disconnected from the internet so this
is another level of security that you
can have on on wallets the last subject
is there has been no movement in regards
to the investors so Gregg scale
investments which is a huge investment
company they are currently buying the
equivalent of 150 percent of all new
bitcoins that are being mined that's
equivalent of 3.2 billion u.s. dollars
that they purchased recently in bitcoins
that's a significant investment I would
say on the other hand and then you've
got the poet Judah one of the hedge fund
gurus in the US or even globally that is
committing to Bitcoin - on the other
hand you've got Goldman Sachs
shooting against Bitcoin although the
arguments that they're bringing are not
really valid it's like somebody just
being wanting to be negative and
bringing arguments in that regard so I'm
I'm I'm positive if I look into the Mar
it anyway that's from me today I wish
you a fantastic week looking forward to
see you all next week again and back to
the studio thank you very much for
watching bye thank you Robert
always so insightful now just a reminder
for those of you who are viewing that
we're not providing financial advice
here on the show but rather we're
sharing what's happening in the
cryptocurrency market and leaving it up
to you always remember if you're going
to trade cryptocurrency markets are
ever-changing and they're always
volatile so you should only spend what
you can afford to lose
