Canadian folklore and ghost stories as
retold by author Becca Ferguson narrated
by Robbie Ferguson taking place in 1967
this is the UFO of Falcon Lake Manitoba
on the May long weekend of 1967 an
amateur geologist named Stefan Michalak
journeyed into the wilderness of Falcon
Lake Manitoba in search of quartz and
silver in an outcropping he'd scoped out
the year before tools in hand he was
near a veiny section of Precambrian
shield rock when a flock of geese
spooked em with their harsh hunter
looking up his heart jumped in his
throat at the sight of two glowing
hovering discs about 45 metres above one
landed on a flat section of granite and
the other fluid way after calmly
observing it from a distance for a while
believing it to be a secret military
craft stefan decided to approach the
scent of rotten eggs filled the warm air
around him and a whirring hissing noise
grew louder
in the side of the seamless metal saucer
was an opening he thought he heard
muffled voices but when he called out to
offer his assistance they fell silent
stephane crept closer and tried to peer
inside but the lights were so blinding
he had to pull down the welding goggles
resting on his head without warning
three panels slid shut across the
opening he reached out to touch the
metallic casing and the tips of his
gloves disintegrated nearly burning his
fingertips as well the saucer began to
move and exhaust from a grid-like vent
blew into his chest setting his clothes
ablaze as he was tearing his shirt from
his body the craft flew away Stephane
ran from the forest disoriented and
vomited
but managed to make his way back home
his burns were treated in hospital and
later formed a distinct grid pattern on
his torso for many weeks afterward he
was sick with an unknown illness and
little pieces of metal collected from
the cracks in the rocks where the
incident took place were tested by the
authorities and found to be radioactive
to this very day the circular landing
site remains bereft of Moss even though
it grows abundantly in the outcropping
all around
[Music]
this has been the UFO of Falcon Lake
Manitoba part of Becca Ferguson's
Canadian folklore and ghost story series
catch the complete and ever-growing
series on Wattpad or directly on the
author's website Becca Ferguson comm
like comment and be sure to subscribe so
you don't miss the next tale
