here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom a
ransomware strike took down 23
government agencies in Texas
Walmart is suing Tesla's energy division
after solar panels on seven of its doors
caught fire
researchers have found 85 Google Play
apps with more than 8 million combined
downloads that forced users to view full
screen ads Mario Kart tour was supposed
to be available in March 2019 until
Nintendo delayed its release to give it
a bit more polish now the gaming giant
is finally ready to roll out and has
announced an official launch date these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
dot TV newsroom covering the week's top
tech stories of escape Linux bias I'm
Sacha Rickman and here are the top
stories for following this week a
government agencies in Texas early on
August 16th a total of 23 local
government organizations in Texas were
hit by a coordinated ransomware attack
the type of ransomware has not been
revealed and Texas officials asserted
that no state networks were compromised
in the attack a spokesman for the
department texas department of
information resources or t dir said
authorities are not ready to reveal the
names of the entities affected nor other
details of the attack state and federal
agencies are in the midst of a response
and t v-- ir did not have information on
when whether any of the affected
governmental organizations had chosen to
pay the ransom
but the TV ir did reveal that the
ransomware came from a single source
saying quote at this time the evidence
gathered indicates the attacks came from
one single threat actor investigations
into the or origin of this attack are
ongoing
however response and recovery are at the
prior are the priority at this time and
quote response teams from the t dir the
Texas division of Emergency Management
Texas military Department Department of
Public Safety and the Texas A&amp;M
University System security operations
center and critical
in response team have all been involved
in the effort to bring systems back
online as federal officials from the
Department of Homeland Security the FBI
FEMA and other agencies it's been a bad
year for American cities facing
ransomware attack Baltimore is still in
the process of recovering just sending
out its first water bill since May and
facing 18 million dollars in direct cost
and lost revenue
elsewhere to Florida city's paid out a
total amounting to about 1 million
dollars worth of cryptocurrency to
regain their data
the Texas attacks are the largest
coordinated ransomware attack seen
against multiple local governments but
they're not necessarily the first
coordinated attacks three school
districts in northern Louisiana were hit
by ransomware in a single incident in
July it's not clear if the district's
shared any network infrastructure my
goodness
wasn't there like this I don't know if
it's just the movies that I watch but
isn't it like we do not bow to terrorism
like is that not but but it's like they
just paid a million dollars to random
hackers and the thing is you can call it
targeted maybe it is but realistically
ransomware ten times out of nine is not
targeted it's just they find exploits
and then they exploit it so how how is
it targeted in a government institution
usually how it works is that the actual
human well know it starts with a script
the scripts look for exploits on the web
so these are unpatched windows systems
routers that have default passwords
things like that once it finds one it
then tries to compromise and it will
notify the person who's attacking the
the individual hey I found one here's
the credentials you can log in they'll
log in and then they'll figure out hey
they have two hundred computers or they
have ten thousand computers oh look at
this I'm in I'm into the school board so
what do they do they then sell that
information
that login information well sometimes
they'll install a couple things first to
make sure that they have guaranteed
their access just so that you don't you
don't make it too easy for them to patch
it and then they sell it on the dark web
like let's sell that information so is
it targeted well kind of but it started
with you have unpatched systems and then
it became targeted when they realized
what they had found what they had been
able to compromise and then sell it to
the next highest bidder and then that
bitter is the one who says ok I'm gonna
try to make a million dollars I'm gonna
encrypt all these files over the weekend
right yeah unfortunately it seems to be
like the new norm we kind of started to
fall into complacency there for about
six months leading up to about three
weeks ago I mean unless you're in the
States you know working for the
government that it's really it had
tapered off for a while it was really
bad 2017 2018 2019 has not seen as much
it's like it seems like it has tapered
off maybe people have gotten wise and
patched their systems and so maybe that
but now more exploits come out we've
talked about hey patch your systems
because Microsoft has already revealed
that there are newly found exploits that
are in the wild that can be compromised
so hey if they didn't patch their
systems call it targeted if you want
it's not targeted they're just not
patched right so but that said okay so
we fell into complacency thinking hey
the things have tapered off no now it's
back on the rise again we're seeing
multiple ransomware attacks even in
small communities every single week and
and that's a really dangerous thing and
the truth of the matter is when you're
desperate you're gonna end up paying the
ransom like you're desperate I hope not
I hope not too but at the same time if I
if all of my business was based on the
fact that I needed I know access what
other choice nation yeah and there's
another side to this where you're naming
off all these agencies that are working
with them to recover and I just went
through ransomware attack and it's like
where are these agencies to help me I
didn't personally one of my customers
did
and it was up to me to to remedy it for
them well they didn't pay the ransom
they paid my hourly wage and that was
less than the rant it was less than the
ransom but but still a hefty fine
right but but the fact is is that you
know that was my my burden my stress to
deal with it throughout the process
because backups were not what they
should have been and and so on so but
they've got these massive industries
that will come in and and help them
recover but we can't get backwards and
and you can't pay these folks I know
that's a really hard thing
look look for volume shadow copies if
you ever get hit another thing that's
really interesting not to take too much
time I know you want to move on but if I
can give you one tip this is a really
interesting fact and as soon as I say it
I think I think that the malicious
parties that are watching are gonna be
oh we need to fix that volume shadow
copies are like copies of your files
that you can revert to the previous
version on Windows okay very very handy
if you have them and you need to revert
go back in time so if you have all your
shadow copies and you get hacked or hit
by ransomware sometimes well if you have
a volume Shadow Copy you can go back to
the previous version of the file and you
can do it on a whole drive so you can
just undo the damage just like that but
these days the malicious parties are
getting smart and they're removing the
volume shadow copies from the computer
this particular instance the hacker
whoever coded it will only remove volume
shadow copies from C from the C Drive so
the interesting fact about that is if
your system drive or your data drive is
not C C colon in Wales like if it was D
or Z or P or whatever it still have it
it it may have you may have still had
the volume shadow copies the data would
have still been encrypted but they
didn't think to delete the volume shadow
copies from any Drive other than C right
now that's only the case of the
particular malware that I was dealing
with that was a really stupid bonehead
mistake on the on the part of the hacker
but it gave me an opportunity
to restore some of the networking
because there were volume shadow copies
of the mounted volumes right right so it
was a whole different scenario so so
watch out for that blowing shadow copies
could be your friend that's for sure
after solar panels on seven of its
stores caught fire
Walmart's legal team alleged that the
firm was negligent and how it installed
the panels on the roofs of the stores
court documents describe a string of
fires that occurred between 2012 and
2018 at Walmart locations in Ohio
Marylyn and California the first fire
occurred at a Walmart store in Long
Beach California in 2012 another in
Beavercreek Ohio in March 2018 so our
customers evacuated and the store closed
for eight days oh this court documents a
quote to state the obvious a properly
designed installed inspected and
maintained solar systems do not
spontaneously combust end quote
Walmart is asking Tesla to remove solar
panels from all of its stores and to pay
damages
Tesla's share price fell on news of the
Walmart lawsuit which was filed in the
New York State Supreme Court last
Tuesday that is such a crying shame it
puts a real negative spin on solar
panels doesn't have to be now I'm
thinking of putting solar panels on the
roof of the house and it's like I don't
want my house to catch fire i I don't
think solar panels are that dangerous I
mean I realize that maybe since I had
seven stores with solar panels catch
fire and I realized that that's a
tragedy and be closed for eight days is
bad and I don't want to diminish the
fact that I'm sure that there was damage
I think that the pros outweigh the cons
as far as solar panels go these things
can like this I think how long I want to
know how long were they installed for
right that's I guess the question that
the burning questions it because in the
statement from Walmart they said
properly maintained well were you
properly maintaining it i I know
customers who say they've been properly
maintaining their server and they're
using an e o al version of server
like could could lightning have hit it
could clear that have been the case I
don't know you think they'd have a
lightning tower or some tree nearby
that's a bit taller than the building I
would like to know how many stores Tesla
has solar panels on because yours
doesn't seem like a huge number it feels
yeah was it just a trial like where
there were eight stores and seven of
them caught on fire or was it
millions of stores yeah see my neighbor
two doors down has solar panels all over
their entire roof they're at time yeah
like it's gonna burn I'm not scared
they're not scared I feel like I feel
like this story is weird too maybe yes
this is what I'm feeling like it is this
our advantage at category 5 TV that we
can have this conversation in the news
and say is is media hyping this is media
making it sound like this is a bigger
deal than it is and it's affecting
stocks of Tesla who are like making a
world of difference
yeah Tesla is trying really really hard
really hard well I'm not gonna even go
there but I just I feel like stop
picking on Tesla and and this is the
fact they're not giving all the facts
they're not giving you all the details
they're not saying ok there were there
were actually two thousand stores there
were actually you know these ones they
they decided to have a local company
install them instead of test I don't
know these things
were the official installers you know it
could be anything maybe it was a flat
roof and it flooded a bit and it shorted
something out was it sabotage right all
these things so don't let's not lose
hope in the technology and the the fact
that this can make a whole world of good
for for like emissions hey we can tap
into the Sun I make sense juice about
green power like your wind Sun anything
you can do to make it so that you're not
just digging up fossil fuels and burning
them yeah we we spoke with anusha ask
you and
about her technology at her company ship
and Shore environmental and in that
discussion she mentioned how they can
convert emissions into the heat for the
building and water heating and things
like that how cool is that and now okay
so solar panels yeah we can power things
we can generate heat we can we can heat
the pool we can heat the water of that
you're using to wash your hands and have
a shower right like these are all things
that can be done through just the Sun
don't lose hope don't ya don't let media
hype it don't listen to this story
listen to the conversation after where
we put it straight exactly yes and
comment below and tell us how right we
are how right we are I would really
appreciate that just once in a while
YouTube just tell us how 85 Google Play
downloads that force users to view full
screen ads the apps which poses
photography and gaming programs
contained a family of adware that was
highly disruptive to end-users
once installed the apps displayed ads in
full screen a setting that forced users
to view the entire duration of an ad
before being able to close the window or
to get back into the app the apps showed
an ad every 5 minutes oh the people
operating the platform had the ability
to remotely change the frequency the
adware used several tricks to evade
detection and removal a half an hour
after being installed for instance an
app would hide its icon and create a
shortcut on the device home screen
hiding the icon prevented the apps from
being uninstalled by dragging and
dropping the icon to the uninstall
section of the device screen Android 8
and later versions require user
confirmation before an app can create a
shortcut but even if users of these
versions didn't agree the icon would
nonetheless remain hidden Trend Micro
who made the discovery
privately reported the apps to Google
and Google then removed the apps from
play so
okay but they were removed yeah and I
and I did hear as well that some of
these apps were objectionable so the
problem with that is like okay my kids
use the phone all the time right they
install apps you know we let them
install games and stuff and only the
free ones right and you have a certain
amount of trust and we do have a certain
amount of trust in Google Play and the
App Store and and trust that hey these
things have been tested for any kind of
malware and they do get through the
cracks sometimes because hackers are
clever
advertisers are clever they're getting
paid first isn't it it's not free that
is tricky business hiding the icon you
know how many times I've had like an
idiot boy here Morse I download an app
and a Michael what have I done
uninstall how horrible how do I remove
the LG stuff garbage that it comes with
how horrible would it be if then you
couldn't remove it at all right yeah Oh
or you don't even see it so you don't
even know it's running in the background
it just it's not even there oh that's
dirty guys don't be doing that yeah
Mario Kart tour was supposed to be
available in March 2019 until Nintendo
delayed its release to give it a bit
more polish and now the gaming giant is
finally ready to roll out and has
announced an official launch date the
Mario Kart Tour website even shows that
pre registrations are now open for both
Android and iOS users so they can be
notified as soon as the game is ready to
download but the official word is Mario
Kart tour will be available on your
smartphone September 25th the game is
free to start which means players will
have to decide whether to spend money on
microtransactions to unlock features and
perhaps even characters Nintendo has
promised to release more details about
the game as its release date approaches
and some people give a hard time to
nintendo over like this freemium model
right
but anyone who owns a Nintendo switch
like you already know that like that's
the way the Nintendo has been for some
time it's like hey yeah we'll let you
play for free but if you want
tap into my daughter was concerned today
because she had accidentally spawned
about a billion sheep in her Minecraft
world and it was crashing and she
couldn't get back in and everything
she's like I don't have a Nintendo
account so I can't back it up only you
got to pay 50 bucks for that Nintendo
account right right so it's like the the
infrastructure is already there that's
how they do things and it makes sense oh
you have to make money but I guess phone
users are not really used to that model
like the PlayStation online yeah you're
used to it yeah Nintendo is it called
Nintendo Online I think you're used to
it so if I were to give a child my phone
how easy is it to actually do these
microtransactions that's the thing yeah
okay I ever tell you how that happened
when I first got a Android TV set-top
box no I let you log into your Google
account okay and your Google Account is
associated with your credit card
uh-huh right yeah yeah and I got
notifications I'm sitting at my desk and
I kept getting in my phone was buzzing
in my pocket I pulled it out and it was
like email after email one dollar one
dollar one dollar one dollar wonder $500
plus who is that
and so I I called Becca my wife and I
said I said turn off the TV whatever and
she's like but Zack my son is playing a
game I said turn it off now it was just
racking up he apparently was sitting
there in some race car game where you
can like push the button over and over
and over again to increase your your
power of the car or something and it's
taken a dollar at a time to do I hope
you won that race
they were great about it Amazon because
I think this was actually an Amazon I
know it was it wasn't Google it was an
Amazon fire stick oh yeah that's how it
happened it was my Amazon account so I
contacted Amazon they reversed it it was
no problem but a real learning
experience so then I started adding my
password to every device that I shared
with the kids
right you've got to do it so parents
yeah yeah this new game right like
you'll you want to watch out for that
you'll for sure want a polka phone F
ones I love it has it has second space
so I have my own profile for everything
and then I have a second one that has
just the games for the kids and and I
use that profile when I do now I use it
when I do demonstrations on the air
because then if my wife messages me and
it pops up like private messages it
doesn't show up on the air which we've
had happen before it's all her romantic
messages as were on the air so that's a
cool feature so turn on the password
protection anyway should should protect
you I want to take a quick look at our
cryptocurrency market as of 1800 hours
Wednesday August 28 2019 Bitcoin is down
quite a bit four hundred five dollars
down to nine thousand six hundred
seventy six dollars and 28 cents
Facebook Libre is holding steady at zero
because it's not actually trading yet
but one day we're gonna find that it is
trading and that will be exciting
litecoin is also down everything's down
this week sixty six dollars and forty
cents is the Fiat value of that in US
dollars
if theoria MS down at 170 201 Manero at
72 13 turtle coin is at 0.49 ten
thousandths of a cent and another coin
that has lost a lot we've called it
stellite and then they changed their
name to torque and then they were doing
quite well this week they've lost
another zero point five six ten
thousandth of a cent so they basically
cut the coin in half and are you ready
for this they've changed their name
again I don't know what they're doing
but Scala is the name of the coin the
cryptocurrency formerly known as yeah
exactly so you go to stellite and it
says it's now called torque and then you
go to torque and it's now called Scala
Scala
but torque was doing really well and
then Scala is now you know I don't know
if people have lost confidence in it
because and you know what it could also
be it's a pain in the butt when they
change their coins so much right because
if I'm mining I find crypto mining I
have to reinstall and reconfigure
everything and install the new crypto
miner
install the new wallets and everything
that's like oh you know what I'm just
moving on to a different coin turtle
coin has been pretty stable and and it's
another micro coin they should have kept
it at torque that's a solid main I think
it's just another case of they probably
found a company that said we already on
that train trade mark maybe they should
start googling the names that they come
up with I got an idea let's call it
Tesla right you know
yeah and that's your coins I can tell
you I will put money on the fact that it
won Facebook come the Facebook Libre
yeah it'll have to gain its first week
you can't go yep so invest now oh wait
you can't
yeah yeah big thanks Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers four seven eight
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Ravi Ferguson
