are you the winner of the Kingston data
traveller mm I love these things because
it's an encrypted USB flash drive and
that means that your data is safe if I
do but typically it nice Cheers
typically with an encrypted drive you
got to install software get it all
configured install your password and if
you don't have the software all you've
lost your data and all that no this has
got the built-in touchpad so you just
push the buttons enter your passcode it
decrypts it you plug it into your
computer and boom you've got access to
your files but as soon as you unplug it
it really disables the fact that it's an
unencrypted so it goes back into an
encrypted state so anyone else who plugs
that into their computer can't access
the files great if you are traveling
with anything confidential but it's also
nice just to know that your data is safe
I've got pictures of my kids and things
like that I've got cryptocurrency keys
and they can be safe just don't forget
your password don't forget your password
that's important it's a backup of the
backup remember that it's just one that
you can take with you and you no longer
have to worry about about it so we have
one of those to give away let's jump
right into it folks if you cast your
ballot I hope that you win campus and
Michael hey Shai Baker
lots of names this week folks I know we
gonna get there I like the balance keep
coming
thanks for saying nice things about us
man we'll call them junior kisses Stan
it's flying by too fast on us mark I
feel like this is like I feel like this
is like an episode of Walker oh I see I
see Richard I see Wow Bob Hey anybody
else feel emotion sickness ray better
right now
Ian and I saw Dennis there as well Jenna
Michael
[Music]
Peters and we must be getting near the
end done good luck everybody if you
haven't seen your name yet Scott and the
winner this week of data traveler 2000
is David Hartley David gratulations sir
conclu you are the proud owner of a
Kingston DataTraveler 2000 David all we
need you to do is just simply send an
email to contest a category 5 TV with
your shipping address that I can send
that out to you and that's all that it
takes
[Applause]
