well welcome to a category-5 community
coffee break for a Sunday May 3rd 2020
back a guy in that Robbie said having
technical difficulty but he will be
joining us we have sold boo me marsh man
Peter Lance million 63 and eventually
Robbie Ferguson first vp9 this week
MOA might be taking today off M he's
been there taking a few weekends off oh
good wish I could do that Robbie Robbie
[ __ ] in the chat so I just replied so
let's uh what do we got going on guys in
Norway we have a cheap bit and if you
purchase we haven't had this low fuel
prices for maybe ten years so a lot of
people are happy is that is yeah ours
ours drop to but the thing is I'm not
going anywhere so we did oh thank god
when George is with then take about hey
gents there's two of me on my screen one
of you is frozen though that that guy
good thing I look so serious
yeah that's my that's my why isn't my
Wi-Fi working look so you ask me why do
you want to upgrade to a micro tech
and that would be why I'm using the ISPs
Wi-Fi and it's terrible yeah I I shut
everything off on the modem slash router
that they said I can't wait I can't wait
to bridge it yeah yeah
what does you want to get a micro what
mikrotik negro dick what is that this
guy just a router but a really good one
oh yeah
right now I just got the the stuff that
the ISP installed and most like I you
saw there I couldn't connect and for
some reason it thinks I'm connected
twice I thought maybe it was like a
hotspot or a different way of receiving
it has Wi-Fi built-in yeah yeah there he
goes he's gone you know they bound
oh they start at 40 bucks and they go up
to three or four hundred depending on
what you want the one that I got is a
about 120 130 somewhere around there was
I wanted a what big like a boob and I
think it would cost you about three
dollars three pounds because I'm talking
Canadian dollars so 100 and I don't know
what's what's that work out - I'd say
about 60 to 70 pounds I went back to the
episode and looked up the model and did
a search for it
good currently unavailable in the United
States unavailable unavailable you got
to be kidding oh my goodness well this
is just the one that I that I picked
because and yeah okay what is it it is a
and the reason I can never remember is
are you ready for this yes are b96 to
you IG s5 h AC t2 h mt the model so he
says to me what which model is that one
well let me tell you it's an RB 9 6 -
you know IG s 5h a CT - hm - Artie not -
that's unreal it's a half a C we're
gonna call it a half AC for short home
access I think they call it a home
access point AC because I was looking I
just went online to look for a port for
the chainsaw and I have a Remington M
5118 R and I said cool let's let's look
it up but do I have a 41 ay8 0ag 883 or
of 41 by8 0ag 983 i say how's their
return policy and you order one of each
[Laughter]
I've got a micro tick on Amazon here for
$107 yeah I'm gonna be showing them on
the show lands man and one of the things
is that they have like a hundred
different models and you just do
traditionally routers you have to pay
more for extra features in the software
these ones they take a different
approach the software is unlocked and
you buy the hardware based on what your
needs are so for example the one I got
the advantage to it is well it has what
do they call these things a particular
type of port for the fiber bug snc or
knowing what is that I don't know I'm
never gonna use that but that's one of
the advantages to this one if you needed
that I can't remember what they're
called for some reason yeah that's for
what oh you can put a fiber module in
there so that you can uplink it to other
devices at big speeds
maybe for storage or some yi1 of this
one that was the five gigahertz Wi-Fi as
well as 2.4 it's got two radios you know
you get really good Wi-Fi all the neck
your
that too they have them dual band
routers yeah yeah exactly
yeah Nighthawk is a good one Nighthawk
yes replacement that's a Nighthawk is
that a brand it's a net gear model oh
okay I see
so a series of routers that Netgear
makes good take dope gawd oh I'll tell
you they saw something to enjoy
well they yeah yeah I like the way I
don't know no without it just Google
just google it I don't have a computer
in front of me that I can use Peter I
don't know I I order them i order them
from like because i work in a computer
shop so we always have stock and they
order them from suppliers so we get none
like from the wholesaler ok would be
what what bad valuable at opens benign
bacteria good boy
I got a link on our site to if you if
you want to support us that way that
gives you a list of all the Amazon ones
I guess anybody doing anything fun today
I'm like I just literally like battled
the Wi-Fi to get connected and now I'm
just sitting and relaxing finished work
for the day
I have plans after this reshuffle there
are modules in there my main desktop PC
and my server my main desktop need eight
now has 16 gigs of RAM and it can and
the server has 64 so if I change there
are modules in my main desktop for they
and my server will still have 48 32 and
you sure the server doesn't have ECC
I would guess I would yeah yeah just do
a quick search for the model a server
just make sure that it that it's non-ecc
otherwise it won't be compatible cuz sir
like I I don't remember what the server
was is it a dollar it's only its HP okay
yeah so it might be ECC I think I can
and plug well and I'll show you if you
can tell by looking at it I've just look
up the model yeah again I don't have a
computer to look at stuff but yeah I
should say ECC on the module or not yeah
yeah that's the thing so but you can
look up the the model of the server and
it'll probably tell you he can't hear us
now he's taken off the headphones yeah
oh he's got your muds today something
else
speakers Oh speakers okay
yes it's the wireless headset no
extraneous yes the port on the router
setup small form-factor pluggable yeah I
never remember cuz I've never used it
but it gives you like 10 gig uplink
capability and you can use it to connect
to a fiber node and whatever else or if
you want to have like I scuzzy at 10 gig
you can do it over fiber so it's a
superfast port you know in enterprise
yeah I don't need it but in an
enterprise it makes sense to have that
hmm what do you find solving let's see
if yeah we can read that oh yeah okay
you you you say something and as soon as
subbu says something it'll pin him let's
see if I can do it there you go it's
they have a metal shielding some oh it's
got a heatsink on it
as I say does it say the model of RAM is
it is the that a second because that
heat shield this up and added after the
fact or is that mmm what model server is
it yeah that's the thing probably check
the server what CCC like error
correction or something yeah something
like that I think it's a it's a specific
feature of the RAM and it makes it
completely incompatible actually the
first did and Google is Erie Community
College nice error correcting code
proliant dl360p file no Marsh man we'll
look that up for us I mean what was that
he's 360 yeah DLC 60 and that generation
5g 5 generation 5 oh my goodness so
anyway what else HP ProLiant what's mine
mine is it says it is a sec yeah yeah
the other said that I remember so
that'll make it incompatible with your
desktop unfortunately
okay sorry to be the bearer of bad news
soul boo was best to know these things
up front rather than yeah bill has
taught us that it just because something
fits
doesn't mean you should plug it in
you're never gonna live that down
nobody it's a good lesson to learn
because you know you think let me give
you a story oh do you guys want a good
one yeah we we sold well we're working
and we're working in quarantine
conditions right now right and we're a
computer retailer and somebody brought
in their computer to upgrade to Windows
10 and the computer was too old so we
suggested I guess one of the technicians
had suggested well we've we've got this
computer in stock you can replace it and
we'll it's already got Windows 10 on it
so she's like yeah let's do that we
transferred all their files over and
left it in the quarantine room and she
came and picked it up and took it on her
way and lives two hours away so called
up that's a man's two hours away that's
a detail it's an important detail
because it's a lot of effort for her to
come to us right so she called up and I
took the call and said okay I got the
new computer but the printer is not
working okay well this is pretty typical
maybe I got a remote in and maybe set up
the drivers for you because we obviously
didn't set up the printer for her
because we didn't have physical access
to it so so I said well I'll remote in
and I'll take a look so I did remote it
in and we have support tools connect
wise powered and stuff and couldn't see
the printer from the life of me I
checked even in device manager I can see
any non detected USB devices somewhat
there's something weird here I asked her
if the cable could be like a bad cable
or something so she went to the local
computer shop that had outdoor pickup
and bought a new USB cable and brought
it back and looked at it and plugged it
in and set it up and still not seeing
the printer so last-ditch effort I said
ok I can't think of what it is then
you're sure it's powered on yep you're
sure it's like got power and it's
working yep
ok send me a picture of the point I want
to see the the back of the printer
because I'm thinking I want to make sure
that cable is the right cable and is
plugged into the right spot I want to
see
top of the printer so I can see that it
is powered on and I want to see where it
plugs into the computer so she sent me
those pictures and I said there's
something weird about that
can you unplug everything and and take
another picture so I can see it and sure
enough she sends me back the picture and
the USB cable for the printer was
plugged into the Ethernet port so it
fits the hole but it's not gonna it's
not gonna work very well as mine says I
did one of these things 15 years ago or
something I had in my old flat I had an
old pair of PC speakers without power
supply but they worked and without or it
could have the batteries in them I
didn't use them for many years
and then you need to use them so I found
there the PSU or what I thought was the
PSU have plugged it in and it all worked
for it to me needs sudden poof and then
some smoke oh no too many volts or
something yeah smoke by my boy Trey
yesterday from Mammoth and resistors
plow hit a gold ones and up with the
pass brought together and it was working
and checked a continuity through the
transistors good output ie a transmitter
k3l 3k on their tube and the transistors
on the Navajo chi-blocker the own bank
three old wine and I took the wall of
the flower duper a table later a guy
generated work work way
Dwalin a guy bloody another theory bang
when in the end a fella what it was will
be the go-to justiciable for managing
without wonder resisted I hear what you
say and I now it's visual
Peter I have the Great and Powerful oz
has spoken
I remember when 1.3 megapixel cameras
came out but this is like 0.0002
megapixels
what it is is he's got a virtual
background in it and it calls yes it is
you see but I think the camera the
webcam is really really low quality as
it is anyways we've already noticed that
in the past so it's not keying very well
so I couldn't see the resistor you were
holding up but was it a bad rip was it a
bad resistor the guy in a bedroom guys I
think I may I think that booty boy I
didn't know but would one of allowed and
the guy showed you that betray that guy
did they died in the car oh no oh no
we've seen stuff like that like even in
the single board computing market like
there was one that came out that had
some some solder joints just below where
the emmc is bill I can't remember which
one that was but you have to actually
put a piece of electrical tape on the
bottom side of your emmc otherwise you
could short it out if your emmc
card had any metal did you ever hear
that one it sounds weird
yeah no but you know what I mean so
where you plug in where you plug in the
emmc yeah you can see it even on an xu4
you can see I don't know if you guys can
spot that so here's the emmc and there
are some metal pieces that are like
solder for the it looks like the
the SD card hmm so on the on the bottom
side where the emmc plugs in there's
metal so there were some emmc cards that
came out that also had metal resistors
on the bottom side of the MMC plug did
it if you plugged it into this board
willy-nilly he would actually make
contact with these contacts on the lower
side of the PCB and it was short it out
so then you'd fry you know who knows
you'd fry your MMC or whatever so you
just take a piece of electrical tape and
stick it to the bottom side of your emmc
just to protect it a similar kind of
thing Peter because you got a like you
never know you're gonna watch those
things eh okay what would the read again
I need to get good it won't you don't
very good with I don't know Peter what
are you using is this a you is this a
USB camera or is it something built into
a laptop why do you play really yeah Wow
must be an old one man maybe it's an old
one they big well sure it's not maybe
it's yeah maybe it's a setting maybe
like what soul who says maybe it's not
actually using 720p mode so maybe you
know check out if your windows it's a
Windows machine is it or is it Linux
yeah so in Windows just see if you have
a setting to increase the resolution
maybe it's using like a really low
resolution on the webcam in in the zoom
client I know I I had yeah another one
you know oh yeah but if it's if it's
720p there's no way you're pumping out
720p right now I'll bet that's like 320
by 240 yeah if that so so you can
increase the resolution just by changing
the setting
you're probably like on like the default
or something well I did they vote in
billion a no-no in your drivers for that
video camera yeah and also you need to
check check
in addition to their drivers yeah in the
zoom client their settings are where you
change that maybe you can do that I
don't know if you can do it while you're
while you're cat-like while you're in a
call but certainly something to play
with but to answer your question
directly okay yeah they answer your
question directly I really like like
these Microsoft LifeCam cinemas or
studios these are pretty good
the for that oh sure yeah I mean pretty
much anything these days is pretty good
they're older and they're still holding
up the c920 s from Logitech are
excellent cameras they and they'll just
snap onto long as we played them nearly
double when I look through each one yeah
sure sure yeah no problem they plug in
and it worked well yes and no Peter
because you can plug in that camera and
it might default to a low quality
setting if you gotta go in you got to go
into your settings try it with your with
your existing camera to just to just
like see if you can find a way to
increase it because you say it's a 720p
camera I don't think you're pumping out
seven maybe that might be like I say
zero point zero zero zero zero zero
three if that was a thing yeah does the
man whose picture pros he's and they
just force again so I'm not sure it is
there he said that is the problem
hello-hello Marshman great commented
that day you are picking on there Peter
for having a slow camera and you're
having a slow connection and he's going
against and he's gone
wife I couldn't go out while I'm smiling
now it has to go out well it looks like
a fad yeah yeah well the daughter dating
the major yeah baby yeah lucky us that's
this Wi-Fi is terrible I can't wait to
install the micro tech guys you'll see
the difference I gotta run but thanks
for being here sorry that I had
technical issues with my phone today
it's like it's just on the studio Wi-Fi
but it's only temporary till I can get
this thing installed so can't wait now
it's like that's my motivator I want to
show you you guys how things are looking
you want to see yeah sure I I don't have
any time left but I'll show you the main
studio so am I still yeah yeah you're
still here okay good good so there there
we are so get in there see I like your
makeup table there you like that yeah
this is pretty cool actually so it's got
the LEDs oh yeah you wanted to oh so we
wanted to know oh and this is kind of
where we're shooting stuff right now so
he wanted to know what this store is so
it's really it's literally just a door
to door to another door so just an exit
back way back way yeah this is the the
public entrance to the studio so if if
we have guests they'll come in this way
so they don't ever see any of the
production and the things they just see
nice studio itself so yep so they'll
come in here and this is what they get
so we got that for people who need to
you know if anyone needs to do makeup or
just fix their hair those who have hair
okay as well
on you makeup the girly-girl robbery
look-alike oh yeah oh yeah when I when I
do my eyeliner yeah I gotta look pretty
yeah all right guys we'll have a
wonderful afternoon I gotta get going I
got a couple things to do here and then
I going to be zipping out so I'm gonna
go home and spend some time with my fam
probably go for a hike today cuz it's
really really nice oh nice here too yeah
it looks nice over there bill have a
great afternoon everybody we'll see you
tomorrow
already god bless everybody oh as well
take care bye guys
