covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias Hungarian autonomous driving
startup AI motive is leveraging its
technology to address a different
industry and growing need autonomous
satellite operation AI motive is teaming
up with c3s a supplier of satellite and
space-based technologies to develop a
hardware platform for performing AI
operations onboard satellites their AI
where neural network accelerator will be
optimized by c3s for use on satellites
which have a set of operating conditions
that in many ways resembles those
onboard cars on the road but with more
stringent requirements in terms of power
management and environmental operating
hazards the goal of the team up is to
have AI motives technology working on
satellites that are actually operational
in orbit by the second half of next year
the projected applications of onboard
neural onboard neural network
acceleration extend to a number of
different functions according to the
companies including telecommunications
earth imaging and observation
autonomously docking satellites with
other spacecraft deep-space mining and
more well it's true that most satellites
operate essentially in an automated
fashion already meaning they're not
generally manually flown at every given
moment true neural network based on
board AI would provide them with much
more autonomy when it comes to
performing tasks like imaging a specific
area or looking for specific markers in
ground or space-based targets also AI
motive in c3s believe that local
processing of data has the potential to
be a significant game changer when it
comes to the satellite business
currently most of the processing of data
collected by satellites is done after
the raw information is transmitted to
ground stations that can actually result
in a lot of lag time between data
collection and delivery of processed
data to customers particularly when the
satellite operator error or another goal
between is acting as the processor on
behalf of the client rather than just
delivering raw info there is
so more value from a business
perspective in selling processed data
ready to be consumed AI motives Tech
could mean that processing happens
locally on the satellite where the
information is captured single board
computers and other disruptive tech have
shifted toward this kind of computing at
the edge in ground-based IOT setups and
it only makes sense to replicate that in
space for many of the same reasons
including reducing the time it takes to
deliver the processed data which in turn
means more responsive service for paying
customers
