covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias the wait is finally over as
the pine tab pre-orders are now open for
everyone
powered by the latest Ubuntu touch OS
from UV ports the pine tab features a
beautiful 10.1 inch HD IPS compositive
touchscreen at 1280 by 800 pixels and is
powered by an all winner a 64 chip
combined with a 64-bit quad-core 1.2
gigahertz arm cortex a53 processor and a
Mallee 400 GPU it comes with a
replaceable 64 gigabytes emmc module two
gigabytes RAM and a micro SD card slot
supporting up to two terabyte cards the
pine tab also features a rear 5
megapixel camera with LED flash and a
selfie 2 megapixel camera it has stereo
speakers a detachable backlit keyboard
option that can also act as a cover or
stand and a removable battery for neck
for connectivity it has the usual
suspects Wi-Fi Bluetooth and so on but
it also has a headphone jack plus USB
ports including OTG and video HD output
which really helps the pine tab stand
out at this price point you can get your
hands on the latest Linux tablet from
Pine 64 right now for only $99.99 USD or
a hundred and nineteen ninety-eight USD
with the detachable backlit keyboard
according to pine 64 the estimated
shipping time is currently set for late
July
