welcome to category five technology TV
Sasha what do you think of when you
think of a Raspberry Pi case this is
small you know yeah it's functional you
can get like a Raspberry Pi case that
has a screen built-in and they can be
this big like three inches or they can
be I've seen seven inches right but
ladies and gentlemen today we are gonna
look at the 13.3 inch Raspberry Pi case
from kks bead you want to stick around
we're gonna get this out of the box and
connect it up and see how she works yeah
ready for this sure our live recordings
are trusted only two solid-state drives
by Kingston technology revive your
computer with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with telescreen Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash iai be welcome to the show
everybody it's so great to have you here
and i can't believe a week has gone by
already here we are I know and it's time
to broadcast we talked about last week
we're gonna be looking at the world's
biggest Raspberry Pi computer screen
case from kks be really looking forward
to unboxing that setting it up and
ultimately giving it a try tonight so
that's that's kind of what we've got
planned for you you've also got some
stuff going on that you're gonna be
showing us and not just a couple of
moments time true I'm doing my first
ever unboxing mm-hmm lots of great stuff
going on should we I mean before we get
right into it because I know why you're
here you want to see the world's biggest
Raspberry Pi that's case screen I don't
know why I'm here it's a screen case or
a case screen or just a screen for a
Raspberry Pi but then you think about it
being like a separate entity no it's a
case with a honking big huge screen
right that's what we're here for so
we're gonna jump right into it but
before we do I want to remind you to
make sure you subscribe to us on YouTube
and of course make sure you click on
that bell as well that's going to help
you to receive notifications anytime we
release new and exciting videos which we
do which we do indeed okay so that's a
box that's more than a box we're gonna
get into that tonight and that's another
box another box and these two boxes come
together from KK SB and I'm gonna jump
over here alright so there it is folks
we've got the KK SB 13 inch screen stand
are you folks ready for this I'm really
excited about this I mean I've seen
seven inch screens I've seen three and a
half inch screens 13 inches
what okay look at the size of the do you
see the Raspberry Pi there on the
left-hand side huh compare that to the
size of this box okay all right what do
we got here okay we've got some
instructions this is basic assembly
looks pretty simple we'll refer to that
in just a couple of moments and there it
is that's what we get from KK SB we've
got the stand itself which we're gonna
get a look at looks nice as always with
KK SB I'm always impressed with them
everything is like a lot of their stuff
is made of stainless like of steel it's
good solid stuff it's not like a plastic
stand that is steel my friends and then
we've got the case itself this is a
metal case for the Raspberry Pi and of
course that would fit any compatible SBC
like a saya and a sous tinker board for
example if you want a little more power
we've got a couple of bits in there
looks like some standoffs and some
screws okay so let's get the case out
here Sasha oh right that's all there is
to it yeah so let's let's get a look at
the instructions and see what I actually
have to do now first step is I need the
actual screen and this skirt this is the
butt as the first box I held up here
tonight and it's so big that I actually
gonna have to clear some space here on
the desk look at the size of that
compared to the Raspberry Pi my goodness
I'm gonna have to actually clear some
space here all right ladies and
gentlemen Oh
all right there we have it all right
we've got some basic instructions here
in particular with the Raspberry Pi
there are some things that we're gonna
have to add to the config we'll look at
that in just a couple of minutes but
hold on to that we've got a power supply
got a barrel connector there and there
you go 12 volts thousand milliamps nice
okay set that aside we've got a USB
cable this is actually believe it or not
this is also a touchscreen so we're
gonna need that USB cable to operate the
the touch and we've got a nice little
short HDMI cable to connect the PI end
we've got a universal connector just in
case you're not here in Canada or the
u.s. there is the screen look at that
Wow okay so think about this for a
second this is a Raspberry Pi 3 case /
screen we've got the connectors on the
back to actually mount it to 13.3 inch
and for those of you wondering this is
1080p it's got a film there which we're
going to remove in just a couple of
moments but we'll leave it on there for
a moment just a protective film yeah
well your I've been on its face mm-hmm
okay so step one let's see here we've
got to put these little plastic little
risers on to the back of the screen here
so dig through our trusty little bag of
goodies there we are one and two
[Music]
some exciting TV right there's okay yeah
yeah
through the magic of television I can
speed things up which is a beautiful
thing for those of you watching at home
alright what else have I got
okay so step two let's see what's next
alright we've got that we've got the kit
the stand you need to put that here and
I'm actually going to need to screw the
case into the stand so I'm going to need
these little metal risers everything's
just pictures for the instructions but I
guess the visual of the video tonight
will help as well then I'm gonna put
some these screws in here if I can get
all of them there's one ant where the
other one go
oh there it is on my screwdriver okay so
now flip this over and we're gonna put
these metal little riser type washers on
there they're a little thicker than the
standard washer and now put that on to
the underside of the stand so this is
not gonna go on the face side keep in
mind the monitor is gonna go on that
side but just like that a couple of
couple of nuts to hold it on
there we go we can speed things up for
you and get those tightened up nothing
too difficult here Sasha hmm so very
easy peasy as simple as that and that's
the cake ASB design and and they make
some fantastic high-end stands so if
you're looking at cake ASB versus
competition
keep in mind what you're seeing here
today this is a nice steel stand and
we're gonna pop that raspberry pie in
there now that we've got that mounted on
the back it's just gonna just slide
right in there as is the case with cake
ASB everything is perfectly molded and
ready to go and now I need I've I need
some little risers here these don't look
like the ones though these are a little
bit too thick yeah they definitely
that's not the one that's gonna fit in
there so looking at my bag of tricks hmm
what else have I got here let's see
that's not gonna work
mmm not gonna just screw it directly and
I need to have some kind of standoffs
there aha bag number two these ones look
a little more promising yes much finer
look at that okay so get the raspberry
pie in there now according to the
instructions I just need to put these
standoffs in the bottom oh right here
and while speed this up just because you
know screwin these in by hand is not all
that exciting for you to watch there you
go no tools needed I guess I well I
shouldn't say that
I do need a Phillips screwdriver to
screw in the final screws but a lot of
this stuff is just done by hand there
you go let's get that in there nice and
tight nice and snug for those of you
looking for the screen they are at cat5
dot TV slash pie and there you go so
those two standoffs are holding the
Raspberry Pi 3 in place
now I'm just gonna snap this on here k
KS B cases are traditionally very well
fitted and everything's just gonna snap
together if yes
there you go snap it in there perfect
and you can just feel it go right into
its place and everything is all well
aligned there so ghurabaa in discord its
cap 5tp /pi to see any of the raspberry
pi peripherals that we review here on
category 5 TV and of course this case
and the screen is is there as well if
you're watching live it will take about
24 hours before you'll see that there
now I'm just lining up these long screws
do you see that through the air vent I
just got to kind of make sure that gets
through the hole and screw that in with
this allen key that has been provided to
easy this is perfect perfect indeed
Sasha I could do this with one hand tied
behind my back there we go this would
make a fantastic kiosk I gotta say I
gotta put these back on cuz I've knocked
them off I don't know why that was step
one it could have been whatever this is
now there we go okay so now line all
those up with the screw holes for the
back plate there and we're gonna put
this all together there you go so this
is just gonna mount right onto the back
of that 13.3 inch screen remember this
is 1080p folks I want to check these
risers that are this are seemingly extra
they don't seem to be for anything I'm
not sure what they're for maybe I could
I could elevate those plastic pieces but
it doesn't seem necessary so I won't use
them today cuz the extra bits it's like
when you buy something from Ikea and
you've got a couple of
stur screws left over you know what
they're just a bonus bonus bonus bits
there you go 16k you think do you do do
you there uber ABBA
I know this is 1080p realistically Sony
has been working on some attending some
16k technology but it's gonna be a while
before we see it on a Raspberry Pi case
all right let's grab that short little
HDMI cable and plug that into the
Raspberry Pi there you go and it's gonna
come around the side check this out
we've got all these inputs on the side
here we've got HDMI I see well let's
let's get a better look here so straight
into the HDMI there for the for the
Raspberry Pi but we've also got HP I'm
not sure that looks like an audio
adapter VGA HDMI touch and DC so the DC
adapter we know is provided but we want
to connect that touch as well I'm
actually a little pleasantly surprised
if you will a little shocked that this
has multi-touch built-in because it's
you know you're just expecting a really
nice little screen but to have that
multi-touch as well so touch just means
that you wouldn't need a keyboard at all
we don't need a mouse and I suppose if
you wanted to you could use an on-screen
keyboard but for a kiosk or just for
general use if you want to put L cars on
there then there you go but doesn't that
look beautiful just stunning so you've
got a couple cables sticking out of the
side there but that's nothing to be
concerned about I mean it looks really
good really clean and the final thing
the final thing Ashley yes the final
thing as I shimmy on over here the final
thing that we need to do is configure
this to work with the screen so you
noticed on the instructions that I
pulled out of the box there there were
there was a little bit of information
about what I need to do a little extra
for Raspberry Pi I mentioned that it has
multi-touch so keep in mind that
I believe for Raspberry Pi it's single
touch but if you have it connected to a
computer say a Windows 10 machine or
something like that then you've got
multi-touch as well okay so it's it's
not just a Raspberry Pi screen you can
connect this to other devices as well
but of course with the kks B components
it's it's like the perfect raspberry
PI's system so I just want to bring it
up on my screen here I've got the the SD
card plugged into my laptop and with
that alright on Windows 10 I can see the
config dot txt file so with this I want
to just scroll right to the end of this
file and add those lines I'm just going
to type those right in then we'll call
this the beautiful cake ASB 13 inch
screen case from cat 5 TV slash PI so I
have no idea what these things do it's
just I'm following the directions I'm
doing what I'm told
Mac's USB current equals one HDMI group
equals two HDMI mode equals 82 HDMI CVT
1920 1080 66000 I presume that means
1080p 60 frames per second and there we
go so it'll take a split second to boot
that thing up once it's up will be will
be back and will actually show you what
this system looks like on screen this is
the cake ASB 13.3 inch Raspberry Pi case
screen multi-touch screen it's it's
super cool beautiful I can't wait to put
this up we'll see it after this quick
little break cigarette
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and we are looking at the
KK SB 13.3 inch Raspberry Pi multi-touch
screen case in the chat room somebody
was saying and Dysport
yeah Marsh man said those numbers will
set resolution and over/under scan so
image the image fits over and under scan
so if you've got like a border around
the screen for example then you can
adjust that okay okay
in this case I guess because of the
instructions saying 0 0 0 then you don't
have I guess maybe no over scan mm-hmm
let's find out should we get rid over to
it yeah find the button and there we go
Beauty Tom I touched the screen and that
came to life yay Sasha do you want to
walk over there and and you can actually
I'll Vanna White this sash is gonna just
jump right over there and and BR our
Vanna okay so first of all we've got
some kind of rippling going on do you
want to peel off the now okay I want to
just say this is not a Samsung Galaxy
fold so it's a yeah it's safe to peel
off the polymer let's take a look around
so this is so thirteen point three
inches how can we let give you some kind
of what that's not really a good I have
nothing but a self a smartphone does
that help an expert phone that's a
pretty big smartphone this is the the f1
the poco phone f1 so you know comparison
wise hand there's your hand okay so how
is the touch Sasha because we haven't
had to do and I know that they can't
really see you can't play around a
little bit I think it would be best if
you do oh we haven't done any
calibration all we've done is booted up
raspbian and this is just raspbian linux
go to games can you go to games yeah
python games I don't know I don't know
this is just a vanilla wow that's a
really fun game the game I'm looking and
it looks like it's
I mean that's a really fine fine
resolution there you go but I opened a
game oh there you go here we go she's
like yeah I did it by accident but it
works Oh how's that how is the
calibration so it's working it's good so
when you touch stuff is it yeah oh I
heard something
oh yeah it's making some noises so the
screen also has built-in speakers coming
off the HDMI is here that from my mic
you'd hear it more if I was if I was
playing Sasha win there we go very nice
okay what else can you do so this this
is just raspbian Anna on the KSP 13-inch
screen okay so let's see we have office
so LibreOffice yeah let's see let's try
and open one of these this is great dude
there's a keyboard at your feet if you
care to grab a keyboard and then well
it's just there yes unplug it you can I
was just on the charger that's why it's
at your feet ah there's a power switch
right there okay is it is it already
oh yeah look at that so is it so that's
quick yeah just move your keyboard down
so that we get the screen and focus
there there we go so touch wise good
everything works like a bi patch here
yeah oh yeah this is great
I want this no don't Wow
did you see that ass that was like a
little time regardless of the speed of
the Raspberry Pi 3 the fact that she was
able to touch that little X in the top
right and we didn't have to do any
calibration yeah that is astonishing
ultra intuitive Wow I love this
size-wise Sasha how does it feel feels
great can we like how can I like if I
had a laptop or like I could pull my
laptop out and show you size comparison
wise yeah does that help at all like
this is approximately a little bit
smaller than my laptop screen which is
covered in dust this is the perfect size
really oh I don't want to do shutdown X
get out of there I wasn't watching what
did you do yeah
just pressing buttons or some buttons
what I do best Internet chromium web
browser or that's not what I picked
I picked close mail cancel ok Internet
Oh sometimes if you hit it with your
knuckle it doesn't work so this isn't
full resolution 1080p I might even want
to put it like 720p just to make it just
so that it's not so tiny
mm-hmm but so if you go to like I mean
this is just web browser on on raspbian
no big deal but so there you have it I
mean there's the kks be case can we just
you know if you want to come back around
Sasha I'm just gonna bring this back up
and let's actually get a look at it as
far as how this looks
there you go so this is a little bit of
a you know a different view for you but
that's just absolutely awesome and
there's the Raspberry Pi sitting on the
back nice and solid
and you saw Sasha they're kind of
operating things for us I think just
right there is the perfect spot for it
if I don't knock everything over so the
ksb 13.3 inch Raspberry Pi screen case
is available at cat5 TV slash PI now
these are brand-new and so stock is like
is coming
about we're starting to see it in
America and it certainly it's available
internationally as well through their
website you can get to their website by
going to our website category five dot
TV clicking on support the show and then
you'll see partner links and in the
partner links you'll see ksb both
international and US but just a quick
way to find this particular device this
rink the screen and and the case it's
available at cap five dot TV slash PI
I'm really really excited about this
because like there's never really been
this kind of kiosk case ready and
available to the consumer market you see
them sometimes like in in businesses and
things and you know that they pay so
much for those things but this is the
perfect little kiosk for like sitting at
your front desk or even just for your
personal use for your kitchen counter
holy cow yeah you imagine recipes it
could help me cook oh my gosh this is
perfect
next step is I got an experiment with
the on-screen keyboard getting that
configured because I knew that would be
the next the next best thing is actually
using the on-screen keyboard to be able
to control it yes it's a full Linux
computer it's not a tablet you're not
limited to like iOS or something like
that right this is a full debian-based
computer so whether it be internet
surfing or installing apps or whatever
you want to do it's all available to you
it's raspbian it is just a Raspberry Pi
three sitting on the back of it so could
you put retropie on that and then like
yes play i it would be extreme overkill
in some ways because you wouldn't really
have a use for the touchscreen but you
could do it and it would become like a
portable screen and you retropie
although that's it i kind of laugh about
that suggestion because you know
retropie on a touchscreen is overkill
but remember retropie raspbian all the
different distros that you can put on a
Raspberry Pi are on an SD card right so
you can safely shut it down pull the SD
card for raspbian put in your gaming
for retropie beat it up use it for
gaming right and then unplug that and
plug back in the other one and you can
just keep swapping back and forth
whatever you want to do so if you want
to take it to the cottage and use that
as a screen for watching movies and
playing video games you can and then
when you bring it home you can put it
back into recipe mode for the kitchen
right how cool is that
I love it cat 5 TV /pi to pick one of
those up we've got to take a really
quick break when we come back Sasha
you're gonna be doing an unboxing time I
sure excellent stick around whether you
shop on ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H Photo
Video eBay or Amazon or even if you want
a free trial of audible you'll find the
best deals and support the shows we
produce by simply visiting the shopping
sites you already frequent by using the
links on our website visit category-five
TV slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching
welcome back everybody now this has
ended up somehow by some kind of
shifting of the moon being an unboxing
special which is excellent my favorite I
heard it was one of your favorites right
even I wore an unboxing shirt look at
that and so with Jeff being away Sasha
loving unboxings I thought it would be
very appropriate to get Sasha's hands
into the unboxing over there right
disclaimer first unboxing so first
unboxing ever folks so this is this is
great you want to head over there and
what do you have for us today Sasha I
have a super cool Aurora
master which is like this really neat
light display that can go on your
ceiling in your bedroom or your kitchen
okay your bathroom oh yeah
let's see what's - I get into the box
I'm doing it yeah all right so courts
what kind of cords have we got this is a
USB device keep it on the camera for us
USB so okay it's USB two-barrel that's
interesting
and then this one here which is just
like audio is that audio it is yeah
because this actually has a built-in
speaker I am it's red it's something and
this is I guess a how to how to turn on
the light yeah okay oh this is the
action here so this is the Aurora master
12 LED 8 mode LED ocean wave projector
so apparently what I'm understanding
here sash is that this is meant to
project the ocean onto any rights in a
variety of colors mmm so the red ocean
or the blue ocean okay so you can see
that there's a spot here for batteries
you need a screwdriver for that I will
need a screwdriver okay we've all and
then I guess here is I guess you can
plug it in via USB right cool I wonder
if you could actually plug that then
into your laptop and it would actually
it would function would you have to plug
in also this audio thing into your lap
so I guess if you want to use it as a
speaker so if you wanted it to be
playing say nature sounds of Ontario
Canada and right nature sounds from our
RSS feed Bingham then you could actually
have the ocean sounds at the same time
right or music or whatever else it has
an auto shutoff after 1 hour
so you can fall asleep to this and then
it won't be playing all day so over here
you can't quite see it because it's
white on white but that's an on/off and
then an up and a down volume button okay
and it looks like that's kind of it
pretty simple device yeah I do
should we plug it in let's okay well
bring it back over here okay so this is
a lot bigger than I was thinking it
looks you know from the pictures on
Amazon you'll think that it's like the
size of a coffee cup or something like
that this is that's a honkin huge latte
right there great so I'm thinking it
would actually project pretty large onto
a ceiling if can I can I unwrap this can
I get the gonna get these off there
perfect there we go there we go and
there you are
you want to just plug it into your
laptop and see if it just works okay
okay so you said there's a power button
here yeah it's right in the middle yeah
oh yeah okay we've got some light so I
wonder can you cycle through yep so
that's red okay Oh party lights party
lights let's go
can we turn the lights dim the lights
and we're gonna see how that looks okay
so this is this is pretty neat I don't
know if you guys I got to hold this up
but this is pretty bright mm-hmm that's
just on the ceiling of our studio here
just the drop ceiling and then you
obviously wouldn't sleep through the
party lights like there's other yeah wow
it's really dark in here
right so you can have this okay like the
owl so this would like some gentle whale
music or something
[Applause]
well you can see my shadow that's
awesome so you can actually see this
yeah but it's it there's like this fluid
motion to it and and some of the reviews
on Amazon have said that it's janky that
it's clunky that the the animation is
not smooth but look at it it looks good
to me we can actually see that could we
switch the mode again to see sure yeah
look at how smooth that looks oh that's
not the one yeah rats got this like
really I want to see like a natural
ocean kind of Wow
partay there you go
I think blue is that's the one that's
cool I could fall asleep to that sure
okay so that's what it looks like folks
definitely has a smooth look to it you
can see like and what I'm looking for is
is there any point within the animation
of it where it seems to like click or
jump and I'm not seeing that at all now
I'm gonna get my head down in here so
you're gonna see my shadow I want to
hear because my microphone is on my face
so I've got my face right up to this is
there any sound from it and I hear
nothing Sasha mm-hmm there's no sound
there's no like there's no annoying like
clicking sound of a motor or anything
like that and if I look in here let's
see if I can actually get you a view I
don't see any movement right where is
the movement actually taking place it
must be the little lights inside must be
spinning just a little bit I'm not
seeing it there's no motion and yet the
the roof is getting that like I'm gonna
blind myself staring at it but there's
got to be so I see how it works there is
a lens there's a little tiny lens that
is moving around over top
the LEDs that's really smart but there's
no sound from the motion there's no
motor sound or anything like that but I
can see if I look and blind myself that
it is in fact a lens you can see that
Sasha it looks like a magnifying glass
just kind of very subtly moving over top
of those LEDs right that's what causes
that animation this would be perfect
with anybody like a child that needs a
nightlight like a transition from a
nightlight to a relaxation yes I like it
a lot I think that's really neat huh and
it's got a built-in speaker we didn't
test the speaker here because that's not
really something that I really care
about but at the same time like if I
wanted to I could plug it into a an mp3
player or something like that to be
honest what I'd probably do is is not
use the speaker with that because I
usually have my phone charging on my my
little lamp beside my bed right so I'll
just plug something into my phone and
have it playing from there cool yeah
that's pretty neat so that is available
at cap 5 dot TV slash Aurora Aurora as
per the link in the description below
and we're gonna head over to the
newsroom great job with your first
unboxing but wait well that's a cool
thing to thing here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom the last major windows update
broke some systems with particular
antivirus software installed and it's
seemingly getting worse Marc Hutchins
the security researcher who stopped
wanna cry has pled guilty to the malware
charges we reported in 2017 samsung has
pushed back the launch of its highly
anticipated folding smartphone after
multiple reviewers reported the screens
broke within days and Microsoft's Azure
machine learning Tech is being put to
good use in a grant program designed to
give computing resources to scientists
working on environmental sustainability
programs
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
looks like Linux by us Jeff Westen Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what
are you you're terrible actor what this
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host I'm Sachi Rickman and here
the top stories were following this week
the last major windows update broke some
systems with particular antivirus
software installs and it's seemingly
getting worse
last week Microsoft halted updates to
its Windows 7 and 8.1 operating systems
as well as some Windows server
installations running Sophos and avast
security solutions the update caused
user machines to lock up or fail to boot
since then the list of known issues for
the update was itself updated to
acknowledge compatibility issues with
Avira and Acura bit antivirus with
Microsoft temporarily blocking updates
to those affected systems too over the
weekend it was revealed that Microsoft
is also investigating compatibility
issues for systems with mcafee antivirus
installed affected computers either
freeze outright or start acting unusable
slow when you attempt to log into
Windows you can temporarily workaround
the issue by booting into safe mode
disabling your antivirus and then
rebooting your system normally while
Windows 10 pcs don't appear to be
affected by this particular issue a new
issue cropped up this week surrounding
the coming May update on Windows 10
systems that either have a USB Drive or
SD card connected the update has been
put on hold because updating these
systems may result in your drive letters
being reassigned breaking your Windows
machine
according to Microsoft this issue will
be resolved in a future servicing update
for Windows 10 for now don't leave SD
cards or USB drives connected to your
Windows 10 computer
just in case wow windows thanks for that
it's been a great month once again
hasn't it hasn't even been a year since
October Wow
so ok so the way to get your computer
working again is to turn off your
antivirus hey good practice number 1
have an up-to-date antivirus good
practice number 2 keep your operating
system up-to-date what if those two
things conflict right holy cow
hi and then this USB SD card situation
like thing yeah good thank goodness they
have noticed it in advance right because
it could have been last year where they
just push the update and then broke
everything that's October yeah right
yeah I leave here at the studio I leave
an SD card almost always plugged into
the computer because when I leave on a
Wednesday night after we record the show
like there are things happening and one
of the SD cards from one of the cameras
has always plugged in right so if you
could imagine that this update what it
does is basically like you've got your C
Drive you've got your you plug in an SD
card and now you've got a J Drive and an
H Drive and all these other things
happening right and if you use SBC's
maybe you've got a whole bunch of
different Drive letters and like active
but what happens is this update then
garbles those up so now your C Drive is
your F Drive and oh my goodness so then
of course nothing will boot things are
in the wrong places is not finding
things like like I really don't
understand how they could possibly get
something like that wrong I just don't
get it it's kind of Windows 3.1 here
folks yeah like I thought we had this
licked
I thought we knew the difference between
an A and a C Drive right but no
apparently not Linux does it completely
different this is why Linux is is
winning completely yes absolutely we use
you you IDs so really Windows just wants
you to turn off your antivirus and
unplug all your things and just update
oh yeah we'll just turn off your updates
and turn off your antivirus in order to
make things
Oh Linux actually uses you you IDs
unique identifiers for each device so
your hard drive for example in all the
partitions on your hard drive have a
unique identifier and that identifier is
then mounted to a mount point so okay
regardless you could you could unplug
all your hard drives and then plug them
in in a completely random order to
different cables and it will still boot
because it gets the unique identifier
from the partitions of the drive that's
limits do you think they get it right
right yeah do you think that Windows
could just like pay attention to how to
get it right a little I think they're
gonna have to start right it's timed
they're learning some things from Linux
but that's one of those things that like
Linux has really got that down and
that's and that's why we're using you
you IDs and not dev assignments anymore
right your FS tab used to have dev /s
db1 well now it has a UUID and that's
why because you can unplug it yeah
changes or if a drive gets pulled it
still boots up and still it everything
ends up where it's supposed to be it's
forward thinking Linux thank you well
done not so much on you Lana windows
Markus Hutchins the security researcher
who stopped wanna cry has pled guilty to
the malware charges we reported in 2017
on episodes 516 &amp; 518 we reported that
mr. Hutchins was arrested but pled not
guilty he was free under a thirty
thousand dollar bond but had to wear a
GPS tracking device last year though he
was hit with a superseding indictment
introducing new charges related to the
malware Hutchins was charged with
developing and in partnership with
another individual identified in court
documents as Vinny disseminating you
pass kit and Kronos malware the latter
of which has for years been used to
steal banking information this activity
occurred between July 2012 and September
2015
per court records four years prior when
Hutchins was credited with discovering
wanna cries Killswitch Hutchins who is
now prominent
and respected respected security
researcher says quote as you may be
aware I've pled guilty to two charges
related to writing malware in the years
prior to my career in security
I regret these actions and accept full
responsibility for my mistakes having
grown up I've since been using the same
skills that I miss you several years ago
for constructive purposes
end quote according to a plea agreement
filed with the Eastern District of
Wisconsin the British researcher agreed
to plead guilty to two of ten counts
while the other eight were dropped each
count carries up to five years in prison
and up to a two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars in fines through throw
throw that though the plea agreement
states that an acceptance of
responsibility could contribute to a
lighter sentence to me I think he's a
little bit like of a hero because he he
found the kill switch for water cry
he used his evil minds for good right no
yeah but it's not an evil mind sash I
think we're growing like we are now our
kids my kids are growing up in a time
where ten-year olds are so immersed in
tech right that they can become amazing
hackers right when I was a kid when I
was just like my kids age mm-hmm I had
an XT computer that I would pull out
from under my bed and it had a CRT
monitor that I hid in my closet and I
would hook it all up through the the CGA
panel in the back and and and I would
hack away on that but my hacking was
limited to the devices that I had there
was no internet it hadn't been invented
yet well the internet had the World Wide
Web had not so there was no connectivity
for me to the World Wide Web right
because it didn't exist yet so my
hacking was limited to the box that was
under my bed right now
someone with my skill set at that age
mm-hmm could be like you know I'm bored
Friday night I'm gonna screw around and
I'm gonna start hacking away so you two
were an evil genius just without the
tool I would say maybe a genius but not
an evil one okay okay so I don't really
what I'm saying is yes he did I actually
really liked the fact that he admits yes
he did bad but then he turned it around
he's he works for security now he's
using his skills for good I honestly
think that he probably saved the world
far more money than the money that he
would be charged for is his fine
the guy got into account right I think
Selenia yeah it's a tough thing and I
think parents get your kids in the room
and and and let them hear this that this
is a wake-up call to us okay so our kids
the young people growing up in today's
world we're so connected and we are very
capable on computers and very capable of
of hacking and we can put that to
malicious user we can put it to good use
yeah I could put things to malicious use
as a kid and I did and it was limited to
my school Network right and it never got
outside of that network it was limited
to the computer lab you know right
nowadays it's not limited like that we
have no borders as far as what we can
hack so our young people need to
understand the the decisions that you
make right now they have lasting
consequences this young man is now a
security researcher and a darn good one
he's awesome and he's making a
difference in the world he has saved
people from some very serious malware
mm-hmm and because of the decision that
he made as a child I won't even call it
a mistake because everything is a
learning experience but because of this
decision that he made to do something
malicious or you know what the
government will call malicious because
in stealing
densha's to bank accounts you can call
that benign or you can call it just fun
or whatever you want to call it yes who
knows yeah out of theft and so it is
malicious as far as you know what's
right and wrong goes so now he's having
to face ten years in prison and
thousands and thousands $60,000 worth of
fines because of this decision that he
made as a kid right even though now he's
grown up and he's saying you know now I
would never do that now I'm using my
powers for good
exactly yeah well and he knows the
capacity like he knows what it takes to
do these these hacks and these thefts
and because he's smart enough to know
how so he can block people like himself
Yeah right okay the issue that we're up
against right now with you young people
is that you have the abilities and I
understand you have the abilities but
you haven't got the life experience that
he has you haven't yet grown up and it's
okay to be a kid it's okay to be young
mm-hmm and to enjoy that and to learn
and grow and and you know and and hack
but be very mindful that you'd need to
be mindful that what you do now could
have an impact on you as an adult right
and and on other people as well
especially if it's something malicious
and and it may be fun but it's really
big picture is you know you can cause a
lot of damage and wreak a lot of havoc
but like let's just be very mindful of
the fact that you just got to be willing
to recognize that it's tough I mean when
I was a kid I didn't want to admit I was
a kid right and when kids are kid when
when you're a teenager you don't want to
admit that you're still growing up and
you know what you have an idea and
there's probably a little bit of doubt
in your mind like I wonder if I could do
this and you're you're just wondering so
you're trying and then you do it and
you're like oh I can and then it's done
already right and then it's too late
yeah so so kids I mean if I can just
give you any advice just just think
twice and even ask ask an adult and ask
somebody like is this going to
have lasting impact it's like don't post
pictures of yourself naked on the
Internet
like write it this is just too grown-up
it makes sense but to a kid maybe it's
you know there's the temptation there
but it's like you can never undo that
you can never you can never you can
never get it back back yeah and then
you're gonna deal with that when you're
an adult and you just don't want that in
your past so just just like take a
moment stop what you're doing
listen to Robbie no thank you I just
wish I could just sit down with you just
so hopefully right will you hear me out
okay
yeah email us comment whatever it takes
I'm here for you
Samsung has pushed back the launch for
its highly anticipated folding
smartphone after multiple reviewers
reported the screens broke within days
Samsung's Galaxy fold was unveiled in
February following years of speculation
about the possibility of folding phones
but its initial reviews have raised
questions about whether the technology
was rushed out before it was ready the
Galaxy fold was set to hit the market in
the US this friday but samsung said in a
statement that it would now carry out
further tests and make improvements
before announcing a new release date in
the coming weeks the news comes after
several journalists reported issues with
the devices that they'd been given to
review on April 17th Bloomberg reporter
mark Berman tweeted that his device was
unusable just two days in with photos
showing that the screen had gone mostly
black among other complaints was a story
on the verge headlined my Samsung Galaxy
fold screen broke after just one day at
least some of the complaints have come
from users who had peeled off a thin
layer of polymer from the screen that
samsung said was not intended to be
removed but issues with the Galaxy fold
seemed to run deeper the company's
statement identified the hinge mechanism
and substances found inside the device
as potential problem areas Samsung's
problems come less than three years
after its exploding phone Sega which saw
the company recalled Galaxy Note 7 after
defects caused phones to catch on fire
never a good sign
no so they're very tenacious like
they're really trying and I I like the
idea of advancing ideas in tack I don't
understand why I might need a folding
phone but I can understand that you need
to create a folding phone for the next
possible phone that I might need which
maybe is a phone that wraps right around
my wrist or something well but you think
about a folding phone so a phone yeah
form-factor
yeah it's in your pocket that then
unfolds to twice the size basically a
tablet yeah so it's like having a tablet
that fits in your pocket that then you
can I don't dislike it I I don't think
you have to push something to this point
where things are falling apart after
really they've got to be first though
it's a very competitive market right oh
yes oh yeah everybody about Apple has
announced a folding phone that they're
working on and it's like okay so
Samsung's gotta be first they've got to
be first they've got to be innovators do
they have subsidiaries that they can
like the like a Samsung the fall boy
because it really feels like Samsung is
the fall boy and I've got some
subsidiary that that they're really
actually gonna release under because
they're really messing up a lot of times
with trying to be innovative but maybe
because you know Apple just waits for
everything to build waits until they'll
wait two years after the for an hour
look at that doesn't have a headphone
jack but you know whatever you don't
need that because you've got Bluetooth
headphones that will sell you for three
times as much as they're worth but I
will say Samsung listen to me here okay
they're listening if you put a polymer
film on a screen and that has the
possibility that I might think it's a
protective if I can take it off I'm
taking it off yeah I and I'm picky I'll
pick it's tough so don't give me the
opportunity
Yeah right like uh-huh we'll see how
that shapes up I mean I'm interested to
see what they come up with but it is
again it's that they're pushing it to
the market way faster than mm-hmm they
probably I still I don't care feeling
like so much about the folding phone I
want something I want the next thing
like the idea that hasn't happened yet I
want whatever the folding phone brings
us Oh like I want that the folding phone
man I used to have a flip phone a 16 K
screen sounds nice look I'd like maybe
it's like a leap pad like stepping-stone
technology like okay so now we've got a
folding phone what else can we do right
maybe you're right in that regard I hear
what you're saying like okay now we can
do this exactly so maybe we can have a
laptop where we do this exactly and
suddenly we've got a four foot wide
screen right so the folding foam mat
whatever it's a folding phone but it's
this that's the step that I'm I'm
interested in like three steps from
there the folding phone needs to be
developed properly so we can learn how
not to make it fall apart and have the
screen go black so that what you do feel
they need to so that you can you know
fan out an umbrella of amazing mm-hmm
sounds good I like your style and
apparently you are waiting for Apple yes
sorry for you like Microsoft Azure
machine learning tackle in a grant
program designed to give computing
resources to scientists working on
environmental sustainability programs
mint yeah Microsoft wants to make
accessing powerful AI in machine
learning technology more practical for
science and scientists and environmental
researchers which is why it started AI
for Earth in 2017 in the mere two years
since Microsoft founded AI for Earth it
has awarded over 230 grants to teams in
63 countries covering for research areas
climate change agriculture biodiversity
and waters grants come in two forms data
labeling
services which help get large databases
ready for AI processing and Microsoft
Azur computer credits grant applicants
are able to apply for one or both forms
of grants Microsoft has built to API
specifically for AI for Earth and has
stated that it continues to work on more
currently available is a land coverage
mapping API and a species classification
API the api's are available to anyone
who wants to use them the uses for AI in
protecting natural resources is vast
science generates data both collating
and transforming that data into action
can be difficult when you add that the
sheer volume of data available things
get even more difficult especially if
all that data isn't available to
everyone who may need it
hey I for Earth takes a step toward
rectifying that by offering services to
organizations that might not be able to
access them otherwise and by
centralizing data from government
research agencies from around the globe
in Azure cloud
in addition grant applicants that apply
for data labeling have their data
published on Microsoft Azure for the use
of other researchers further expanding
the base of knowledge needed to turn AI
into a tool for improving the planet
it's like an AI Wikipedia yeah how cool
is that it is so cool and anything that
will help our planet I'm with you we're
in yes we're in that was timely cuz it
was just Earth Day true true that yeah
and this is really what is needed
because we are now getting to that point
where datasets are huge mm-hmm like we
learned about the the eight telescopes
that were used to photograph the black
hole well it took massive amounts of
data and years to process like I think
the photo was actually taken in 2017 do
you realize that and it took this long
to be able to announce it and show it
off well that through the power of AI
and and artificial intelligence machine
learning and the power of them like a
massive supercomputer Network
right can really expedite those kinds of
processes scientific learning and and
scientific experimentation right we can
we can share the knowledge then we kind
of stand on the shoulders of those
before us and we cannot learn new things
you're not learning from the beginning
of time to this point you're learning
from where the research has gotten to
this point and forward we can build
ourselves up we can get much faster at
learning what you're saying is relying
my mind right now Sasha because I'm
thinking about how AI is now like the
new like hand-me-down information like
right is a I going to carry our data for
the next generation yes what yes it is
I'm team a so just think about how
that's going to impact three generations
from now right when like look at
technology and how it's progressed
because we've been passing down our
knowledge year after year and it's
compounding right so you you know what
what we knew in 1950 it's kind of crazy
how far we've come
yeah like look at AI since or not AI but
well definitely I I but look at VR right
since we were children right like
mind-blowing how far this has come and
those of you who are our age or Beyond
know exactly what I'm talking about
mm-hmm so it's only it's going to be
amazing to witness the things that are
gonna unfold I am just eagerly
anticipating all the best yes let's hope
that there are moral people in control
there will be to your last public
service announced Oh fantastic
okay thank you excellent run for
president or whatever you need to do
let's get a look at what coin gecko
tells us about the cryptocurrency market
as of 1800 hours on this day that we are
recording which is April 24th 2019
Bitcoin is up big time another two
hundred and eleven dollars and seventy
cents u.s. in your pocket if you have a
single Bitcoin it's a
five thousand four hundred thirty four
dollars and sixty nine cents litecoin is
down a little bit 7255 us etherium is
also down 160 401 monaro is a 6752
stellite is one of the little guys
gained 0.07 ten thousands of a cent so
basically static at one point six three
ten thousandth of a centimeter ttle coin
at one point three one don't forget if
you are gonna trade in cryptocurrency or
mine or whatever you gonna do it's
always volatile and the market never
closes it's open 24/7 so plan not to get
any sleep right I suppose big thanks to
Roy W Nash in our community of viewers
of for submitting stories test this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson
Sasha you already did one unboxing today
that's right there's another thing I
want you to open up what's that doesn't
even know what it is yet I don't know it
arrived in the mail okay you want to see
what it is yeah don't go anywhere we'll
be right back
technology TV what am i hiding behind my
back
hey Bank a crinkly bag a FedEx crinkly
bag from from drew 'but drew dine burro
don't draw darkness brah drew I got the
pronunciation perfect
I have no scissors I have no knife I am
completely ill-prepared for this what is
this but I think this is for you does it
say it says to Robbie
it's a everything says to Ravi okay you
think it's four how do you know it says
oh this is probably for me uh-huh can
you get into it do you need me to
actually get a knife stand back okay
what do we got what do we got okay come
on get in there here we go we have oh oh
it's official ladies and gentlemen
you've got a satchel of some sort okay
what didn't yes okay what what operating
system are you running on your laptop
there this is my cloud ready and I have
a cloud
how was that for timing right just like
I got a cloud ready notebook and a cloud
ready notebook
this is have two types of cloud reading
notebooks here this is amazing what is
this that's this is like 3d printed this
is okay a little tissue clean EEE keep
in your pocket and blow your nose they
gave me so many things what do you got
um is this hand sanitizer never wear
hand sanitizer come on like you read my
mind
are you serious I actually said this out
loud too right it's so dirty when I type
on my cloud ready computer oh this is
like a card sleeve like I need sleeve
and it has like a sticky all kinds of
crazy stuff
it literally is a card sleeve well I've
got a USB USB flash drive okay I've got
some chapstick
our amazing she's got like lip balm and
hand sanitizer here promise
sticker nice it's going on the back of
my computer is going on there that's
gonna be on there for next week right
yeah it is okay this bag keeps going oh
yeah that's it I think that these are
just bags for you and Jeff oh really yes
did I get some lip balm nice yeah the
unofficial official cloud-ready
spokeswoman here on the set we
appreciate that very much and we love
swag if you love swag hey make sure you
get on to our contest we have a Kingston
data traveler to give away and this is
your final chance to cast your ballot
all you have to do is email contest at
category-five dot TV and tell us your
name and where you're watching from we'd
love to get you in on the draw which is
gonna be happening sometime in the next
couple of weeks and that could be yours
don't forget we are on Twitter at
category-five TV I personally am also on
Twitter and I follow back at Robbie
Ferguson we're also on YouTube as
category 5 TV or if you prefer to watch
just little snippets of the show you can
go to Linux tech show comm which is
gonna take you to that also we're on the
roku channel store and you can get us on
plex on cody and you can do that through
our github at github.com slash cat 5 TV
of course everything comes together as
well as our RSS feeds and everything
else on our website at category-five dot
TV so check us out there it's been fun
having you here Thank You Sasha great
job with all the unboxings tonight yes I
will see
you again next week take care of buddy
see ya
