thanks for joining me for today's coffee
break everybody it is the 3rd of April
2020 I hope you're well yes just so
absolutely so what's new
cheese started you're gonna have some
studying to do Robbie oh good yes
because you you bought you a pint time
right yes sir well you're gonna have to
figure out how to program it aren't you
I think so unless I so unless there just
happens to be anyone in the community
who's gonna share their source code of
course I will uh put it up on github or
something like that brilliant that you
will let you all have at it your your
request for documentation I will also
add that in as well of time I'm not
going to share the screen program but
generated the screenshot that I showed
yesterday because that's based on
another project that I'm that I'm
working on and a catch here that but
certainly any any point time source code
that I have I will certainly share with
you the day the issue is going to be I
expect I'll use a Raspberry Pi to to
program it and I think it what's already
I'm not gonna read document what's
already been documented I'll just point
to the point 64 website where they
already talk about the best hardware
setup to use you know three or four wire
set up from your Raspberry Pi and then
to the to the to the actual point time
watch itself there are four pins or four
holes in the circuit board most people
as I understand it literally just stick
pins into those they don't solve it to
those pins because it would be too easy
to damage the point I'm if you do that
yeah so like base looking thing like
because the developer kit has what looks
like a base that you would plug the pine
time into what's that
looks like it comes in two parts in fact
probably three parts one is the front
face of the watch the other is the back
face of the watch but some people have
actually drilled a hole into so they
could feed the wires in and have the
thing trailing wires all over the plot
going to do that the production model of
the watch would actually have those two
halves you know close together and glued
together in a you know waterproof way so
that it stays waterproof yeah the
development kits don't have that so
don't expect those two halves to come
together and then there is a cradle that
I think you're talking about but the
whole watch just clips you two will
slide into it and I believe it's a
charging cradle for it okay so that
can't be used see it would be nice if
that could be used to actually do the
pre looming firmware yeah those that the
four kings there sorry I can't hear you
there for a second I'm gonna just gonna
mute Peter there cuz see a lot of noise
dude don't unmute yourself and then make
a whole bunch sorry that's a kind of no
problem
that the four pins or the four holes in
the circuit board and not accessible to
that to that power cradle or anything
like that the only way to flash it would
be to take the back off that connect
some wires to those four four pads on
the circuit board and then program it
you don't you should theoretically you
don't do it very often so in the
development kits you you just stick them
out the Ray you know you put it in a
framework in some sort there's a pretty
elaborate framework that someone's built
that uses you know a blue tack or
something to hold all the pieces in
place okay I don't know if I'm going to
do that we'll see what happens but but
the next thing for me is to figure out
these Oh Peter I'm sorry Peter continued
you keep unmuting your microphone and
then making a whole racket I couldn't
even hear you be nice
it's like we're playing I got a bag I
got a budget for nitrogen to tie the
ball to one gave the trade name because
of Al and if I bail out I'm no begging
no lady like that you've gotta stop
saying and I think I got to get the job
that the dirty table their day and they
don't know no no I just was you know the
dough qualified believable we believe
yeah that's that's the hard thing right
now a like if you can't get into the
hospital and you need to what do you do
are you gonna be okay Peter like you
okay oh okay if the Bell failed I need
one too late doctor that friend that
you're I would have said yeah they fail
other wouldn't feel very good at this
one it's late grab the dog would
actually very much and sheet after today
I woulda killed down the drug great hope
I need oh bloody no I didn't hear that
that doesn't sound very pleasant at all
no there's not time like fun neighbor
had some problems yesterday at the
beginning of the coffee break
so I had to visit him after the contract
it's on old man closing on 80 he had to
go to he had a doctor's appointment
today
today it turned out and he didn't know
how to get there
so I have to help in the phone of you
and the the doctor never had a ataxia to
come and become picking up him up today
ham bring him back so it worked out fine
good service for me he sees some field
and so he speaks a little Norwegian but
I think here your Norwegian neighbor
would fit in really well on our coffee
[Laughter]
yeah hey guess what happened this
morning guys you'll never go home well
yeah I I got to work where I am now and
maybe 10 minutes later 15 minutes after
I got here I got a phone call from our
alarm company that our alarm was going
off at this at the new studio I was
gonna side the alarm went off I had a
feeling it was something like I was
gonna I was gonna say it jokingly but so
I my initial thought was okay well there
must be a false alarm like you know we
just had it installed on Saturday right
so sometimes there's some kinks to work
out so I emailed the alarm company and
asked them to send me a copy of the
manual so I can reprogram the terminal
thing just in case it was a false alarm
and I and I went there and everything
was fine so I called off the police and
told them we didn't need anyone because
it was a false alarm
and then I went back over my
surveillance footage just on a whim and
sure enough 837 this morning my door
opens wide and the guy walks in looks
around
looks around and then the alarm starts
going off and then he quickly gets out
and how did he get in exactly so that
was my thought so I'm sitting there
watching the surveillance video and I'm
and I can't see his face I can't see any
because I haven't set up the
surveillance yet so it was just the
camera in the in the office happened to
be pointed toward the door so I saw the
door open that guy walk in you see kinda
his right side and he's looking around
and then he and the alarm goes off right
so as I'm watching this footage I hear
somebody rustling on my door so I jump
and I run to the the door of the studio
and I whip it open and I say you can't
come in here
remember I've just watching the
surveillance and I see this guy turns
out he's one of the maintenance workers
at the condo and he didn't when when
they leased out our unit they didn't
mark us as as a leased unit they had
because they're short-staffed right
because of the cop√°n 19 they've closed
them
so we're moved in we've got our alarm
setup but they didn't mark it as as not
vacant so but he thought it was empty he
thought it was empty and he's going
around for me all of the empty units
he's got a clipboard of all the empty
units and they do an inspection at the
beginning of every month
I guess presumably to prepare them for
you know that months you know trying to
rent it out but so he had walked right
in he had a key obviously he just walked
right in set off the alarm and he's just
freaking out and of course my his first
impression of me is me
yanking the door oh I had no idea who
you were or what you were doing all I
know is that the police are here my
alarm went off this morning I got a call
the alarm company and get them to reset
the code and yeah so that's how my day
started Wow yeah and that happened this
morning happened this morning yeah or at
least mail I
got a voicemail from the property
management company all apologetic and
they're going on about how you know
it'll never happen again we mark we're
so sorry was that I'm really hoping I
don't get a bill for a false alarm a
good point
because if the police get cold lay out
they'll uh they'll charge it for that
and you want to know what's neat is that
I got there within ten minutes in the
pool roughly there oh yeah oh yeah they
were miss around with that stuff yeah
well I'm glad it had a good ending and
I'm glad the alarm system worked exactly
so and I put a couple more cameras out
just on shelves and stuff I want to have
more eyes on the place just never hurt
yeah because you've got those two
entrances right you've got one entrance
literally goes right into the studio so
you definitely want to watch that good
morning did you hear you heard back from
I don't know if bp9 was in our discord
you heard back from from tal yesterday
about the nine-time delivery right
yeah he said they'll be shipping within
about a week or was in the witness oh
thank you sir I appreciate that
sure I'm looking forward to it 59 it's
gonna be a race we're gonna see who gets
it first well I ordered first so I
should get mine first yeah it's Canadian
post right once it gets here it's gonna
take months it'll take three days to get
to Canada and then two months to get to
me Wow I can send somebody to I can send
someone a letter it like Megan my
next-door neighbor and it'll take two
and a half weeks to get here you're
kidding
as they send it to the Depot in Toronto
my dress I track the package
once they said in Toronto then it went
over to BC and then it came back to
Barry makes no sense I really didn't a
velvety then it that cool - go go -
Bellflower guy well I think that's true
even if you even if you drop a letter at
the post office for a P o box at the
same post office it doesn't matter it
all goes to the central facility firm
get sorted and then comes back - to your
local post office yeah you're right it's
crazy but I don't know I guess it's more
efficient than having to sort through
all the incoming letters for any local
and then sorting it out I guess it would
take longer to do that then ship them
all to a central sorting facility and
then bring him back I actually I seem to
recall it was an order from Ameritrade
that came in through New York and then
it went across to BC British Columbia
way out west and then back again so I'm
watching this tracking because Bo you've
got an amazing tracking system on your
site so we can actually kind of see
where where it's traveled and it's like
this is and Here I am waiting eagerly
for my pine sixty-four board to arrive
sometimes two will get a shipment of
like 30 big boxes and one box fell on up
in San Francisco and then they'll come
up to you can and but one box will end
up in Kentucky or something now I don't
realize it but you're over in California
aren't you right so it's the very start
of the day for you it's still one nine
nine o'clock in the morning for you at
9:15 very nice okay nice start to the
day for you you don't even have a copy
yet it's all good no problem absolutely
okay Johnny
photobomb oh hello good to see you too
so Robbie what I was saying earlier is
that I'm not sure how much experience
you have with compiled languages uses
PHP earlier have you know what have you
it becomes mild anything at all maybe
when I was a kid working in and was a
qbasic that brought out the exe compiler
it possibly but thank you basic
interpreter oh yes I think that I'm
aware of it interpreter I started with
basic and then gw-basic and then qbasic
I think it was you I think they renamed
it QE and then that was when they
brought out the aqui compiler so you
were a child executive so you're gonna
have to get into you're gonna have to
spend some time to learn how to take C
or rust or whatever you decide to use
yeah and compile that into what are
called objects obj files on Linux right
or on the Raspberry Pi or dot those
files I'm sorry in Windows its obj files
playing then it's it's just dot o files
then you have to link them all together
to create your executable right and now
the process is all going to be different
for the for the point own so it'll be
different because the end result is not
going to be an executable it'll be a
binary blob that you're going to have to
transport over to the Pine time around
you're there you're going to have to
work on there you're going to have to
work on the physical connections that
you're gonna have to make between the
Pine time and your raspberry pi and then
you're gonna have to figure out how to
get just a simple C program my first one
is going to be the LED flashing program
and which is the equivalent of hello
world right and what it will do is it
will change the intensity of the
back light on the on the pine time
ditched each model do it every second
it'll go low intensity medium high
intensity and then back to zero and then
low intensity high that way you'll know
good I've got a neck I can make an
executable and I can send it to the pine
tone and it will work that's a very
first set to the equivalent of a hello
world right that improves that your
whole compile toolchain all works like
it's supposed to
then what I'll probably do will be like
literally a hello world program where I
will make it I'll Drive the display to
make a display literally the word hello
right yeah that the get but the exercise
for that is going to be understanding
the Adafruit video driver that they
publish so I'll be downloading that I'll
be integrating in each of the project
and then I'll literally just make it
hello bring up LED intensity the
fulbright make it say hello cross my
fingers and hope it works right
practical joke and he said hello and
then someone else and then a third it
sounds like this could be a good
opportunity vp9 for me to to learn
something new something by language I
haven't no I'm too busy Peter right now
I'm glad you but let you learn from that
they better the bike shake anyway it was
good I mean yeah yeah yeah with that you
know you did go up to Israel at a very
brave club where ganya and Linux as well
yeah my full-time work is all
PHP mostly so today I'll be today I'm
coding a new mailing system so like a
mass mailer so from day to day I don't
know what I'm doing but again it's it's
not compiled code but interestingly I
don't I don't necessarily write for the
browser
bp9 I know you made that comment a
couple coffee breaks ago but I actually
use PHP as a CLI language as well so
like this mailer is going to be a cron
job for example beeping us for some
reason Oh No we became unresponsive yeah
as Internet was kind of going so I'll
see that I had a few chats with notice
that last night oil-producing countries
and every single oil drilling company
they are paying on the income and not
the profit but the income they are
paying seventy eight percent tax and
they still yeah crazy and it's one of
the reasons that we can have a very
healthy very wealthy health healthcare
system and social services and so on
yeah sorry my internet went down and
here I was talking all to you and
telling you all about I'm so sorry I
apologize say it again if you want to or
I'll just get back then look at this
thing I was just saying I'm
writing a mail or in PHP right like
that's my job today so okay Heller but I
was just commenting that when I write
PHP code I don't always write it for the
browser in particular like this one is a
good example where it's gonna be a cron
job so it's a CLI tool little can run
from the Linux command line so which is
which is great except none of that's
gonna work on app on time there's no PHP
just that second longer to see copy come
here to you know I don't need to run my
mail or on the pine time though but
doesn't work on the point I'm no she
wanted actually zombies hex code
yourself you could do that you could
actually assemble off the Hicks bytes
yourself and not write intermediate code
lots of ways to do it and you can them
and and they know postman I know that
that post fix is already taken yeah I
think post man's already taken as well
yeah you know they're you know there are
Linux utilities and services that
actually seem my own yeah I know what I
got to do is I got a create a program to
basically send one email every three
seconds to a list you know these are
these are opt-in this for a what are
they like a lumberyard so they're
contractors subscribe to receive their
their price list so they'll get the
price list so I do that once a year
what would you every three seconds this
oh just because if you if you throw if
you try to send 500 email all in one
second yes you could really just it's
like using nice right it just yes it
just makes it so that the script doesn't
bog down the server know
or a CAC out and then you have to rerun
it and send them a second copy yeah you
might could just do that striking bash
you probably don't need PHP because I do
a lot of because I'll do a lot of it'll
be an HTML email so to be stylized it's
got an attachment and everything so it's
not just a text email it'll have a logo
and everything else just a little bit
fancier yeah okay man okay it's just a
just a boring thing that I'm doing today
just some people some people would look
for a tool to do it or use MailChimp or
something and I'm just like I'll just
write it take me about two hours and
then they'll have the mail blast out the
only thing I would say is don't get into
the rut of using PHP for every solution
because you know PHP is not necessarily
the right tool for every source oh no no
it's a good way for me to write a cheap
into your fault okay all right because
I'm doing a 70s MVP authentication mm-hm
TLS 1.2 so so yeah it's just a quick
easy way to do it that's all that sounds
like fun yeah yeah just one of those
days I just worked in the I got lost in
the Twittersphere last night she meant
it should not do that because there's
always something to click on to follow
him and see what else someone else was
up to yeah but I did I did get to catch
up with all the Star Trek actors so that
was nice
oh yes they've all got they've all got
Twitter's yeah I follow all of them and
do you okay did I call you back
next-generation era no no okay I've had
grief like comments and stuff from levar
period
anyway James it's time for me to get
back to work
I gotta go write my own PHP program busy
man do it you see that would just that
would take me four times as long at
least and would and it would initially
but once you Melissa I know I know I
mean the more you do because before your
baby yes seriously yes and and this is
just I just got to get her done
it's like because the old tool the old
tool that we used to use for mass mail
was was PHP 5.3 well I removed that from
all our servers last year so they want
to mail it I got to come up with a quick
solution so that's what I'm doing
47 is the current version isn't it 7.2 I
believe so okay yeah okay at least
that's what I'm running on now so that's
the most current all right guys have a
great afternoon
see you again tomorrow hey Robbie take a
free letter
