have you ever had a hard drive crash bro
yes my hard drive failed this past week
I'm filled build um no I didn't have a
backup what that's me in my scenario I
didn't need a backup because I don't
store anything on my hard drive
oh ok so I'm ok mm-hmm well my hard
drive failed there was no backup oh
there was like seven years of photos see
my life is about central management of
data so like this is how I'm able to use
like a pine Book Pro to do video and
yeah we talked about selves I'm remoted
in through a VPN connection to a massive
server that has I I scuzzy access to
massive storage so I don't need any kind
of storage on my devices so when my hard
drive failed as they failed mm-hmm it it
didn't take any of my data with it it
just was a bit of an inconvenience I had
to put in a new drive and and get back
up and running get everything
reinstalled but what was a little
frightening about this particular
failure uh-huh that I have never
encountered in my entire career as a
computer technician in my entire life is
that when I walked in to my office there
was a stench of melted electronics oh no
oh I don't have very good photos but
what I have I will give you my hard
drive caught on fire overnight oh yes so
within the chassis of my computer which
is like an aluminium yeah case there was
a fire Wow yeah so when you think about
so then I'm thinking oh my goodness all
the time I've never seen this happen
before
and there's nothing that I have ever
done that should have caused that
there's no there's nothing that I did to
do that there's no there's no dust
buildup no the computer is perfectly
clean under my desk and is a
never moved it's statically setup and it
just was it was a cheap SSD I think and
it literally caught on fire inside the
chassis so the fire was contained the
computer was okay thankfully but stunts
like a beast no dough for about three
days but the drive itself was so baked
did you contacts no no I replaced it
with a good Kingston heart yeah yeah I
did and reinstall my stuff and you know
I'm back up and running in a few hours
you didn't do this the first time but it
really did make me think about all those
times that I've thought about doing like
wooden builds maybe yeah it was a really
good thing that my computer chassis was
made of aluminum what maybe that and and
fairly airtight to the point where not a
whole lot of oxygen can get in once once
it's expelled right yeah so like the
burning didn't affect any of the other
component no because it was in the in
the drive tray so it was contained
within the tray so so the tray itself
actually had some plastic components as
well those plastic components melted and
dripped down Wow but the Washburn it was
low it was a fire it was a fire inside
the case of the hard drive yeah the SSD
it was a and that's the crazy part is
that it's an SSD and like I I can see
that maybe with you know traditional
hard drive with moving parts but an SSD
to catch fire I would be really proud if
it was like I'm moving parts thing like
I worked that beast so I got it up to 15
billion rpm and then nobody must have
burnt for a while it was pretty bad so
so you did you get alert ah this is just
my desktop computer I didn't have names
running monitoring on it or anything
like that however because the board the
it did make me think because the
motherboard has USB ports on the
motherboard yeah I think I might put a
temper device in my computer chassis and
a temper devices like a USB thermal
sensor
an episode with what we did to do that
so imagine putting that in and then I
could have gotten an alert from Nimes
Linux that said hey your computer is a
hundred and forty degrees Celsius and
would you have been like a mistake that
would have been a little bit of a
strange alert for sure however you can
trust names that the data is accurate so
then you would have gone to see it in
action brought some marshmallows yeah
but thankfully was contained because
that could have impacted the entire
office yeah but doesn't it make you
think about like all these like builds
that I'm doing and and some of them made
of cardboard so I'm really kind of
rethinking the materials that I use for
my builds and and you know I think about
kks be cases for for single board
computers and how they're like solid
steel mm-hmm bent and fabricated steel
and that just says quality to me and
like that's gonna that's gonna protect
me an event of like a short circuit or
something like that I don't know what
happened to the drive it was like an
internal thing I've never had a hard
drive catching never know how to power
supply's I haven't I've never I've never
had a fire like that yeah I was the
computer that I bailed out on four years
ago six months in all sudden I'm like
what is that smell
yeah and then I went down with a
computer and I realize it's smoked sure
but I've burnt capacitors I've had
things burst yeah but I'm talking this
caught on fire like literally I was not
from heat this was like a short circuit
in the power lines or something within
the drive the crazy stuff so so now I
mean hey I've never seen it happen
before but now I know it could happen it
actually did happen to Robbie what are
the stats I want I think we should all
try to simulate it make it happen oh
yeah I wonder if there's a kid like
there is some data as to what could
cause an SSD to light on fire what's on
the inside I don't think it's a very
common thing what what's on the inside
of it what is that you've got a PCB
circuit board with with with memory
modules yeah essentially and and some
resistors and all kinds of little
circuits and stuff but so something in
there no there's no moving parts and so
something in there short circuited I
think and maybe like 12 volt hit
something else and decided to explode
and catch one I don't know the
interesting is that it happened when you
weren't in the office because if it
happened well you were in the office you
might have taken a while for you to
figure out I might have been like okay
my computer's on fire like as you would
have smelled it yeah yeah you might have
ruined your computer with like a fire
extinguisher at that point maybe yeah
it's probably good really good but an
electrical fire contained within an
aluminum boxes hopefully pretty safe it
was in one of my wooden chassis
