we are looking at the GNU image
manipulation program and just before
just during the break we took this
picture and we're gonna turn this into
an amazing thumbnail for YouTube that is
going to pop now if you're not a
youtuber it's okay you're gonna learn
some really neat strategies today in
order to do some editing in this free
visual editor this photo editor called
the GIMP or GNU image manipulation
program you can download it absolutely
free for Windows Mac and Linux at
gimp.org let's get right into it okay so
one of the things that we need to do is
we need to cut ourselves out of this
picture so all I'm going to do is I'm
going to use this lasso marquee which
they call the free select tool and I'm
gonna click a single point at the bottom
of my arm here and as I follow along see
it's a straight line Henry yes I can
actually click on points and trace
around my torso really really easily now
if I mess up like that I can actually
move these lines perfect so it's like a
nice little pen tool I can kind of like
cut things out or something
exactly oh so we actually want to be
able to cut each of us out of this photo
well that's just a really really quick
job I'm doing this really really quickly
on the air so that this doesn't take up
all of our time but you can take it as
much time as you want to do this yeah
we're just gonna get around here I don't
wanna have a little bit of a flat head
there so I'm just gonna fix that don't
you love that you can do that in the GNU
image manipulation program so I mean if
I I've done that by accident I can grab
this point and bring it back in
excellent see that I can go back to this
point bring it back in so it's as easy
as that going around me okay nice and
easy brilliant right okay I got me I'll
just do that boom hit enter and now
ctrl-c ctrl-v I've created a new
floating selection I'm going to right
click and go layer to new layer now if I
turn off that background layer it's just
Robbie yeah so now I'm gonna get the
next guy so this
the Jeff is behind me so I don't have to
trace around my arm I can just start
anywhere in my arm okay and trace around
Jeff here we go nice face there death by
the way thank you I said smile and he's
so happy yeah happy to be here
make sure you can curvature of the hair
right oh yes it's so much easier when
you're bald if you got spiky hair you're
gonna have trouble with this I could
just use the round circle marquee and it
would do just fine there we go see how
easy that one was enter and now back to
the first layer I don't want to copy on
my layer I want to copy on the bottom
layer control C control V right click
layer two new layer now turn it off
that's what we have well I can turn off
Jeff oh I can turn off me or two
separate layers that's healthy
now let's go over to Henry see how
quickly this can be done again we're
using the lasso marquee aka free select
and we'll trace around Henry like a pro
yeah it's good thing I got my hair cut
as you're doing this Yeti wizard is
asking you in the chat room wouldn't you
want to use the feather to selection to
smooth the edges to the cut or something
like that if you wanted to get that
precise no not in this case because
we're not that's not what we're doing so
what we're doing is we're creating a
border I'm gonna show you how this works
I've got Henry and I'm gonna control see
now what what was being asked there as
if I should feather it and give it a
softer edge no I don't want that in this
case I want a hard edge on these photos
so now it looks like that okay claire's
Henry oh there's Jeff there's me okay
see how quick and easy that is so now
I'm going to go to my layer and I'm
gonna right click on the layer you're
gonna understand why I don't want to
feather
I'm going to go alpha to selection and
now it's actually going to select me
perfectly now I'm going to right click
and I need to go layer layer to image
size okay so that now see how the orange
box is around me yeah if I go layer
layer to image size that orange box is
now the image
sighs so now because i right-clicked on
my lair and chose alpha to selection i
am perfectly bordered okay so now i'm
gonna right click and go select grow and
let's try this is 50 100 pixels wide so
I'm gonna try 30 pixels and hit enter
you're gonna see that layer that
selection grow around me okay
okay see that so now I'm gonna go one
layer below me which is the Jeff layer
and I'm going to right click and go new
layer feel like this is some hierarchy
of the show ok so I've created a new
layer which is absolutely blank and I'm
gonna write I'm gonna actually first
click on here make sure that I've got
white selected and right click and then
fill with the white color so now I've
got this perfect board or right around
me yeah see that so if I turn off my
layer it actually looks like that okay
but it's 30 pixels bigger than me okay
awesome oh now I'm gonna do the exact
same thing to Jeff I'm gonna go alpha to
selection right click layer layer to
image size right click select grow
because I want to make that that border
him
yeah that's election now I'm gonna go to
Henry's layer one layer below Jeff
create a new empty layer right click
Edit fill ok see what's happening there
now gonna go to Henry same thing what am
I gonna do Oh what did I just have I
right clicked on something alright Jeff
tell me what I'm gonna do I'm gonna
right click I'm gonna go alpha to
selection then what's next I'm gonna
right click and I'm gonna go layer layer
to image size yep okay now I'm gonna
right click select grow by 3030 same for
each guy and then I'm gonna go one layer
below and I'm gonna create a new layer
and then I'm gonna fill my marquee with
white ok so now you've seen it on
YouTube we've got this perfect border
around each of us it's beautiful right
within the image see that okay now I'm
gonna blur that background a little bit
so I'm gonna go back to the background
layer I'm gonna go right click and go
filters
blur Gaussian blur
you know what I actually prefer the
legacy blur feature so blur I think it's
just a little a feeling yeah well this
is the one that it's included though so
let's let's increase the size of the
blur let's see what that's gonna do for
my background see how it's just kind of
bringing the focus off of that I don't
want it to be too stark I just want to
bring us out of the photo a little bit
see that is there we go
okay next step so there I've got a bit
of a blur on that background next step
I'm going to right click and I'm gonna
go image canvas size now what do we know
about our thumbnails we need to make
sure that they are proportional sixteen
over nine so 1920 by 1080 is a
traditional 1080p video dimension now if
we don't size our image correctly to
sixteen over nine we're gonna have black
bars either on the top and bottom or the
left and right of our thumbnail yeah so
because this is for YouTube we're gonna
I'm gonna actually just copy the width
so what I've done is I've got an image
canvas size and copy the width that's
where I'm going to start so just double
click and ctrl C now I'm gonna go 1920
and make a mental note of two nine one
six so ten eighty then I'm gonna turn on
this link between them and then re paste
my width there we go okay so this is
already sixteen over nine perfect it is
perfect excellence because the it still
remained with a height of 29 16 so I
don't need to rescale this at all re
crop the the canvas now while you were
doing that you have you Izzard asked
another question open that room and
wanting to know the significance of
using the different sizes of the layers
between the image size versus the
selection size and as I see it and
correct me if I'm wrong on this one if
you went by the selection size you
wouldn't be able to then do the
expansion of 30 pixels because the
selection size is to what you cut
whereas we mean when we when we change
the layer to the image size that's right
so that when you do the outside then you
have more to work with is that correct
can I explain so I presentation
I've taken no not wrong just let me
explain it in a real easy-to-understand
way
so when I cut out me okay as an example
or we cut out you now I copy you to the
clipboard and paste so now the layer
ends right here right so now if I grow
30 pixels
it goes beyond there it's gonna go
beyond the no not the selection the the
selection is going to go beyond the the
border of the layer right so now when I
fill it's gonna get cut off 30 pixels
above your head right yeah because the
white is now higher you're outside of
the layer right okay
so by making the layer fill the entire
canvas size now we can then go beyond 30
pixels beyond the top bottom left right
edge of the layer of the image it's what
I matter guys didn't say it that way all
right so there we go folks there's our
image for the thumbnail but we need to
have text okay and there's you've got
text on your shirt yeah so there's a way
to do this that YouTube just loves let's
grab let's try the impact font to start
so I've selected the text tool here and
then I've selected my font and I'm gonna
scroll and see if we can find impact
let's see it's a little hard to scroll
can you not just hit I to go to up does
not work that way probably no I wouldn't
shake it's not an order yeah I don't
have impact what which is fine if I
don't have the MST because I'm on Linux
so if I don't have Microsoft fonts
installed it's okay impact is one that
is definitely going to work well for
this but what I'm gonna do is I'm going
to create a text box let's actually put
this on a top layer so I'm gonna create
a new layer there we go and let's just
find a font that we like okay there we
go just create that like that and let's
call this episode seven
inch raspberry pi scream just like that
okay so now it's this very very little
text I'm gonna make that a lot bigger
let's try 200 point that's a or 200 pix
it's still too small 500 a little bit
too big dream yeah
350 well I'll just kind of use the arrow
here to go down but now let's let's find
a font that we like so I'm actually
gonna go up to the top right here so
that I can click on one font and then
use my arrow key to move down see that
okay so I kind of like that that's San
serif bold italic and then I'm gonna
just make it so that it all fits on one
line so I'm just gonna go down down down
down down down down mm-hmm
till we get there almost there
honey i shrunk the text no that was
there
come on baby I called 350 I think it's
gonna be close
oh we're at 375 it's gonna be different
depending on the resolution of your
image so the numbers that we're using
for the size of the font 342 so close
within seven but let's go down to let's
try 325 because we need a little bit of
space on the edge now I'm gonna change
that font to white so there we go and
I'm gonna position that just down here
okay now here's where things get a
little interesting I'm gonna again
right-click on my font and go alpha to
selection and this is cool because
without rasterizing the font I've
created a selection of the font no I'm
not using like the magic wand selection
tool or something silly like that no I'm
actually selecting the Alpha of the of
the the font so now I can right click
and I can go select grow
let's try 30 again and now one layer
below right click and go new layer and
this time we're gonna fill black our
foreground color there we go so now it
just pops right out so now on that black
layer I can right click again and go
filter light and shadow
let's use a legacy drop shadow I'm gonna
turn off allow resizing because we don't
want it to mess with our dimensions of
the image I'm going to turn off the
offset and set my blur radius to 50
pixels and the opacity - let's try it in
like 90 and then hit OK there we go
we've just got like a subtle kind of
pop-out glow there nice there you have
it so there's our thumbnail folks very
cool all done all done through the GNU
image manipulation program and you might
have thought that putting a border
around everybody was gonna be a lot of
work yeah it's actually super simple so
they're you know you can take it one
step further and you can say you know
what I want to change the background so
you can turn off that background layer
and pop us on a different background and
be quite Hawaii that's fine by me but
quite quite typically what folks will do
is they'll grab two shades of the same
color and create a new layer down here
and let's get it go okay and then let's
use a gradient and we'll change this to
a radial shape and let's grab it from my
teeth over to here you know and do
something like that you've seen that
kind of thing happen as well yeah I can
reverse that so behind my head is the
lighter of the two colors there we go
again the top layer the glows behind you
exactly you want me to put your arm in
front of my arm
that's a GNU image manipulation program
check it out at gimp.org it's absolutely
free no matter what platform you're on
go grab it very nice
[Music]
