we do a lot of work with shotgun so that
we can track you know we produced over
7,000 shots last season that you guys
saw but there was twenty two thousand
that went through the pipeline that's
like the biggest television show I've
ever how much how many cameras are you
Simula simulated shooting with we're
shooting I will shoot with the standard
you know three maybe four
you drone unit maybe a special you know
take a crane situation but in order to
get all the data that we need you know
from those cameras the metadata the
camera data you know the measurements
and all that that's all been more or
less digital digitized which you know
even just helps the throughput of what
we need from the set yeah and just
having you know again just having access
to you know we all have iPhones so we
use we share notes of like hey by the
way we shot offset this day hey I got it
will let people know or you know if I'm
in Mammoth and Brandon's here in LA and
you know somebody else is at home sick
like we can all still progress the day
without missing a beat because honestly
television has no time for the we
research you know something else that's
something that like even like five years
ago was like a huge pain but no we
didn't episode last year where there
were two Adrienne's there were two
Kelley's basically you had to do some
compositing Oh an astonishing job yeah
but we're not we're not a look we're not
a Marvel movie and some of this stuff is
you know we have to do some
old-fashioned trickery but literally
literally we I was I took my Abbott over
there who plugged we plugged our hard
drive into the the video feed by the the
video tab for lack of a better word I
pulled out some quick time that I was
cutting on set to make sure stuff was
actually working in real time and then
also Brandon to to double check is
compositing was also doing the same
thing and literally compositing on set
in the laptop so we could get some
real-time feedback it's a little
jerry-rigged but it's like trying to do
that five years ago would have been
impossible yeah it really brings me to
the digital point like digital has
completely revolutionized the process
from a post production standpoint you
mentioned if people are off sick and
everything you're able to still
collaborate through phones and
everything are you using any kind of
telepresence in order to be able to do
remote editing and things like that
it's more you know we'll use the given
you know file sharing systems okay but
you know I mean even just like trying to
send something to Seth but we sent we
get it together we send it to him to his
phone so that you can have in his hand
you know well we'll make sure that what
he's using what he's seeing is
accessible to him also so I don't know
it's we did it we did a little bit of
work with you know the system ever cast
yeah it's a it's a remote editing system
the thing is is that because I say this
with love and with with operation Seth
is so fast
he literally sees fields I've said this
before he can hear fields and see fields
because of his animation background and
also he's a frickin genius that the ever
cast system had a delay so we can only
use it for more macro based stuff you
know so we actually to do stuff in the
room but we could edit from thousands of
miles away using the the ever cast
system with my Abbott basically up on
somebody's phone Wow incredible camping
with Skype - we can do we share screens
with Skype and somebody was able to me
yeah but we did have a setup where you
know if a director or somebody wasn't
able to make it they would be able to
you know tap into the system be there
and talk back to you know the composer
talk back to everybody that needs to be
involved so yeah I mean we have
definitely tested a lot of things
because we are moving at such a
breakneck speed yeah but it's also been
such like a crazy adventure to be able
to say hey we can do this like right
features are doing it why can't we do an
11-hour feature the chair and looked and
fairness is you know at the scoring
stage you can't see where I'm pointing
but it's a lot of fun slot is big it's
not the biggest lot but you know that
that's six minutes we're getting the
scoring stage back to stage 15 and we do
that four times a day you've lost a half
hour
our times every week is is a quantum a
quantitative go large a large amount of
time so everything adds up
