do you guys notice these lights behind
us yes so they don't see the lights but
they see probably a little right so you
see the glow behind me and the glow
behind you hair
those are DMX lights not the rapper
[Laughter]
what's neat about so I've got we've got
LED lights all around us here at the
studio to illuminate us and Jeff you can
see them yep and they just plug in you
turn them on and they're significantly
smaller in size than the bulb lights
oh yeah now we've got all these soft
boxes that I got to sell because like
what do you do with them when you've got
all these nice little LEDs right but the
LED panels that we use are just plug and
play you plug in the power and turn it
on
DMX on the other hand gives us a whole
new realm for lighting in that you can
control all of the lights from a
controller okay
and when I say a controller so these
lights behind us are actually running
through oh my goodness what appears like
a mixer yeah right so like I can oh yeah
do do all kinds of changes we can I can
change the color so these are the this
is the RG oh that's the brightness and
then I've got red green blue yeah so I
can actually change that got a bit of a
purple going on so this is pretty neat
but again this is one of those
technologies that always thought it
would be ultra expensive but it was
pretty cheap so yeah they are very cheap
so but that blew my mind because I
needed to buy two lights for the studio
well this with eight lights was cheaper
than those two lights right that didn't
make any sense to me so then I but then
I started doing research and again I
start looking at how what can I do
that's kind of like tinker and and have
fun and I started looking at the other
lights that I have and well they are not
DMX compatible Oh however you can buy a
little controller that takes the power
and then takes DMX input and then
connects to any of the standard LEDs or
if you want to do like
tracks with the you know the spool of
light cable LED no so far me that's all
possible but then so again I'm looking
at okay well you know how can i what
else can I do with this is it worth
getting hmm there are DMX lights that
you've probably seen them that have a
pan and tilt feature yes so you've
probably seen them at dances and
everything else and with these lights
you can move the light around using that
controller okay then I got looking at a
particular very very cheap one and
realize that there are screws to remove
the faceplate why for service presumably
okay remember when I said look look
thinking about ways that I could use a
3d printer to do cool things that would
save money are you gonna make a
basketball no telling think about a pan
tilt zoom camera for $2000 yeah okay
then think about a pan and tilt light
that's controlled by this controller for
only $90 okay take the faceplate off put
a Raspberry Pi inside of it with the
Raspberry Pi HQ camera 3d print a new
faceplate to hold that in place now
you've got a DMX controlled Raspberry Pi
HQ camera which we we would be able to
hang on the ceiling we'd be able to
control for doing product reviews and
overhead shots which we can't currently
do right because we don't have that
capability in a PTZ cameras 2,000 bucks
I like that still think you should print
a bad symbol for there's nothing
stopping us from doing that Jeff go yeah
so with with that controller you can
control as many like it'll do it has 196
channels so you can control as many
lights and and pan/tilt systems as you
want from that controller basically
virtually no limit for a small studio
like ours I wonder if at a
thinking from a pure like security
standpoint and if you could use that
housing to also hold like a wise cam so
that you've got your cameras inside yeah
the lights have multiple cameras yeah so
there's no reason why not that way you
can have your PTZ security as well going
on yeah sure
move it around well or you could just
buy a PT zy scam but in particular you
could use a real picture in particular
the HQ cam for the Raspberry Pi is like
a full quality camera yeah so I can
install software on there to turn it
into an HD camera for our show very cool
that's something that has me kind of
excited hmm it's just a thought it's
just an idea I again I don't own a 3d
printer so I can't but I can start
designing the the idea crafting the idea
and maybe have somebody else print the
design for me if it works just an idea
what do you guys think is that something
that sounds fun right yeah yep and then
all of our lights in here in the studio
here can be controlled by the the DMX
