here are the stories were covering this
week in a category 5 TV newsroom
Facebook has confirmed that at least 200
million phone numbers from members have
been exposed in an online database it
could be more than twice than that an
estimated 600,000 GPS trackers for
monitoring the location of kids seniors
and pets contain vulnerabilities that
open users up to a host of creepy
attacks to protect query privacy Mozilla
will begin a slow rollout of DNS over
HTTPS by default in its Firefox browser
at the end of the month moving all DNS
queries to CloudFlare and a blind man
has helped develop a smart cane that
uses Google Maps and sensors to navigate
the world these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere this is the
category 5 dot TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech days
Linux bias I'm Sasha Rickman and here
are the top stirs were following this
week Facebook has confirmed that at
least 200 million phone numbers from
members have been exposed in an online
database it could be more than twice
than that yes we took a break from
Facebook's weekly data leaks these past
few weeks but we weren't joking when we
said it continues to happen the company
said that it is now investigating trying
to figure out who compiled this database
of anywhere from 200 to 400 million
phone records
leaving it online unprotected it's not
believed to have been compiled or put
there by Facebook the database of
telephone numbers and Facebook IDs was
discovered on an unprotected web server
and was not password-protected database
was taken offline after the new site
TechCrunch reported the issue to the web
hosting company in April 2018 Facebook
switched off a feature that let people
search for other users by typing in
their phone number the company said
malicious actors abused the feature by
typing in millions of phone numbers to
find out who owned them it said that
they had been harvesting profiles and
phone numbers for years by abusing the
search tool and that anybody who had not
changed their privacy settings after
adding their phone number should assume
their information had been harvested
okay
so understand how this happens right
like you know that checkbox that says
allow people to find me by my phone
number yeah yeah so 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0
0 0 0 2 and just cycle through right
right a bot to do that and boom it
harvests all these so it's not a data
breach per se it's that that check box
that allows them to find you if they
know your phone number allowed anyone to
to harvest based on box just spiked it's
like that bought dialers right angel
dialers they call them
I remember those yeah so remember when
we used to get a lot of solicitor calls
and it was just random used to well
shouldn't be too high now but then
magicJack so I would say I don't you at
least once a week
I get a call from the Canada Revenue
Agency oh there's a warrant for your
arrest
take that one seriously then there's
always the guy calling to clean my ducts
let him know that all I've got his geese
Wow
and he doesn't figure that one I
couldn't figure it out no or a year on
bail then no virgin virgin yep some kind
of Sadducees magicJack yeah and we've
changed our number before it's just a
button in I will say you just log in and
push a button and it gives you a new
phone number it it does not happen with
magicJack because we have magicJack for
our home address we have since 2010 yeah
that have never once had a spam call on
it I have but you can block them you can
just log in again and to the interface
on the website I I don't have some block
that I've never had it never happened so
I'm yeah it's fairly rare I'd like to
know who put their phone number on
Facebook a lot of you have to in order
to authenticate your account oh really
yeah at one point you didn't have to I
don't think I had to yeah well you are
not on Facebook now I am not on Facebook
so I can't check was on Facebook I could
be wrong I mean I've only ever sign up
for Facebook on an app mmm I think if
you do it on the web you don't require a
cellphone because obviously they can't
text your cell phone and be like oh is
this correct yeah I think but I could be
wrong I don't know it was a security
concern I'm pretty sure I raised it on
the show before yep how Facebook was
forcing people to provide phone numbers
in order to confirm that they are who
they are and that's fairly common
practice YouTube is the same you cannot
be a YouTube creator without providing a
cell phone a cell phone number have to
be able to SMS you now they really well
you can activate it with a home phone
like with a phone number and the robot
will call you and say this is Google
your authentication code is huh so yes I
mistake yeah you can do that however in
my case I had already done that a few
times with other
accounts and so my personal phone number
was maxed out like you're allowed to do
it four times or something like that
yeah it's like activating Windows you
can only do it a hundred times come on
now right yes of course I only have one
computer running Windows 10 yeah
software piracy an estimated 600,000 GPS
trackers for monitoring the location of
kids seniors and pets containing
vulnerabilities that open users up to a
host of creepy attacks the 25.20 5 to
$50 devices are small enough to wear on
a necklace or stash in a pocket or car -
compartment many also include cameras
and microphones they're marketed on
Amazon and other online stores as
inexpensive ways to help keep kids
seniors and pets safe ignoring the
ethics of attaching a spying device on
people that we love there's another
reason for skepticism vulnerabilities in
the t8 mini GPS tracker locator and
almost 30 similar model brands from the
same manufacturer shenzhen i 365 Tec
makes users vulnerable to eavesdropping
spying and spoofing attacks that falsify
users true location
researchers at Avast threat lab found
that ID numbers assigned to each device
were based on its International Mobile
Equipment Identity or IMEI even worse
during the manufacturing devices were
assigned precisely the same default
password of one two three four five six
the design allowed the researchers to
find more than 600,000 devices actively
being used in the wild with that
password and as if that wasn't bad
enough the device is transmitted all
data in plain text using commands that
were easy to reverse-engineer the result
people who are on the same network as
the smartphone or web-based app can
monitor or modify sensitive traffic one
command that might come in handy sends a
text message to a phone of the attackers
choice
an attacker can use it to obtain the
phone number tied to a specific account
from their attackers on the same network
could change the GPS coordinates the
tracker was reporting or forced the
device to call a number of the attackers
choice and broadcast any sound within
range of its microphone other command
commands allow devices to return to
their original factory settings
including the default password or to
install an attacker chosen firmware and
for those of us familiar with
man-in-the-middle attacks here's a scary
one a simple command allows attackers to
change the IP address of the server that
the tracker communicates with the
researchers said that they privately
notified the vendor of the t8 mini GPS
tracker of the vulnerabilities On June
24th and never got a response so okay
I'm gonna get myself in trouble go ahead
Jeff do you think it's by design Oh Jeff
don't go there
no it's stupidity and cheap cheap
product I'm gonna say it's for
monitoring no no because proper
monitoring solution that you're alluding
to that I know you're alluding to is
going to be encrypted and they're gonna
be the data is going to be hidden in
packets just going to some server I mean
you could be right in maybe I'm just
like you know going into the dark
conspiracy theories of my mind but to
have something that simple all the same
password like so easy to me that is a
inferior product that they said let's
leave this open to be able to collect
the data access from anywhere I don't
buy it I state no I I'm not I like to
think that people are inherently good
yes no matter what culture they're from
no matter what background they're from
that's what I believe I actually could
see the benefit of these if properly
right right this is see the good in it
and sure
to me like it feels to me to have
Alzheimer's patient exactly sure but
people who are wonderous they think that
they're going somewhere that I mean they
think they're going home and they're
living in a completely different City
yeah and they're just wandering down the
street and it's a panic until you find
them we've had tragedies I mean we're up
here in Canada we've had winter
tragedies where somebody has gone lost
from a retirement home and they've found
them out in the middle of the ice exact
months later and it's tragic and like
these kind of so this is somebody has
created a wonderful idea yes but didn't
have the knowledge or the finance
financial backing to implement it
correctly because it can cost tens of
thousands and more to be able to develop
the software correctly so what I hope
doesn't happen is I hope that they don't
take a story like this and have a fear
for a tool like this yeah used correctly
in a safe secure way this could really
help keep you know a people at risk safe
including pets yeah it can help Jeff
doesn't want to believe it I believe
here's why I don't believe it okay no
response again if you are a if I can
back up just a second my if from my eyes
this could be a company that has
developed a really cool product and they
who knows what their company is like it
could be a start-up it could be but
they've sold a lot like this is a
shenzhen company so we know this is a
Chinese company and how many Chinese
companies are there what good luck
getting a hold of one of them in an
event of a support issue if there's five
people working for the company they
built something really cool they
unfortunately have sold a quarter of a
million of them and no it's a great idea
but but they've done it incorrectly from
a security perspective I'm still not
buying it I'm sorry the fact that you
can log in and change even the reporting
IP address tells me just how flexible
the backend software is
and if that's the case they should be
able to push an update or something
let's just say that the person who does
that has to be pretty knowledgeable
about tech and yeah there's two things
that I know about humanity one
everybody's born good yes and two
everybody's born stupid and we have to
get past that we have to learn two
things one to ignore bad and remain good
and to become intelligent and by
intelligent intelligence is relative and
knowledge is what I'm referring to
so so the the the person who developed
this product are persons who developed
this product I believe or are gonna be
good their intentions are good that's my
personal belief because that's what I
would that's what I'd rather believe
about the world almost like they had a
great raw idea and they took that idea
and they just plopped it into the market
as opposed to polishing it yeah sure
it's almost like you know they released
it in step one and it needed to go
through another 20 steps or I have the
great idea I don't know how to program
I'm gonna hire somebody fresh out of
school who has no idea about
cybersecurity yeah and they're gonna be
the ones to do it because they can do it
cheaper I would love these things like I
just do to have one in my car would be
great as a security oh yeah factor right
so that if my car ever gets stolen I can
always not that my car's gonna get
stolen it's not even but but then I
could track it or sure on my person so
that if I get stolen
somebody can track me Dave you got the
app all right what do you think I'm glad
you guys are you know like positive
thinkers I think this is totally by
design and nobody wants to admit it I
don't I don't believe that for a second
you ought to believe it who do you agree
with who do you agree with is this deep
dark evil monitoring tracking trying to
find out who went to the ice cream shop
today in America or so that's Jeff's
opinion or is it just somebody who
probably hired some student to do the
coding for them because they have a
great product idea
and that student didn't have any clue
about cybersecurity and didn't know that
they need to encrypt that data and
encrypt that traffic and for goodness
sake use a hashed password and it's not
one two three four five six who's right
that's like it's up to you to decide
to protect query privacy Mozilla will
begin a slow rollout of DNS over HTTP by
default in its Firefox browser by the
end of the month moving all DNS queries
to cloud fair under development since
2017 DNS over HTTP known as do H for
short transfers domain name queries
which try to match domain names with
server IP addresses over a secure
encrypted HTTPS connection to a DNS
server rather than via an unprotected
unencrypted a bog-standard dns
connection this extra layer of security
ideally prevents third parties such as
network service providers from easily
seeing the websites internet users visit
and prevents miscreants from tampering
with domain name lookups though through
though doah provides much more privacy
than the status quo it's controversial
where a lack of privacy is assumed or
required such as a monitored
environments that insist on content
filtering among other reasons back in
July the UK Internet service providers
Association nominated Mozilla for its
internet villain of the Year award
because do H breaks DNS based content
filters put in place to deny access to
explicit obscene or otherwise
objectionable websites a few days later
the trade group reversed itself after
fallout from users it's been claimed the
do H will make it easier for people to
avoid network based content filtering
Mozilla maintains the do H improves
overall internet security
although Firefox is do H service will be
provided through cloud cloud for cloud
flairs 1.1 1.1 dns service
at first the list of supported service
providers may grow over time so this is
a tough one when Google forced every web
designer and web host to go HTTP there's
the understanding that this is more
secure this is more safe my data being
sent and received from that server is
now encrypted right but when Google did
that they also made it so that other
search engines who track traffic in
order to provide accurate results
instead of PageRank are no longer viable
their entire infrastructure now does not
work because Google has made the
Internet HTTP so we don't see the
fallout of a decision that they put
under the guise that this is a security
thing now firefox forcing dns to the
HTTP based it sounds like from a
security perspective this is a great
idea now my internet service provider
doesn't know that I am going to category
5 dot TV when I go there because the DNS
lookup is happening at an encrypted
level and all that happens the
transaction is IP based yes so do you
think this could be related to a fallout
from things like illegal downloads like
it could this be used what's the big
picture is it does well I have an
ulterior motive like Google with HTTPS
but well that's what I'm asking like I
mean I think of the case about was it
six seven years ago where a bunch of
people downloaded The Hurt Locker and
suddenly they got legal letters saying
your IP was tracked downloading this
right so is it possible that by doing
this you can you
plausibly designs that I never went
there well we can say that the DNS
encryption is protecting us as users
sure it is
it absolutely is but I am a daddy and I
have a pie hole yes okay okay
I have a pie hole on my network that
blocks advertising of all types whether
it's pornographic or otherwise yep and
my pie hole is subscribed so this is a
DNS filtration device my pie hole also
is subscribed to pornography lists yeah
and adult content and gambling sites and
all those kinds of things so that my
kids not anything more than to protect
them right now what don't accidentally
stumble on something that they exactly
wouldn't once yeah yeah and tragically
this happens downloading an mp3 file
googling to download a particular song
yeah it's a pornographic ad pops up yes
from Google like it shouldn't happen but
it does so as a dad I want to protect my
kids so I have that in place now what
Mattila is saying to me is we're going
to roll out an update that is going to
change your computers including my son's
laptop and my daughter's laptop and my
eight-year-olds laptop they all have
laptops they're so freakin spoiled
they're gonna change the settings on
their laptops so that it bypasses
Daddy's protection and instead lets them
see all those things
blows my mind and presenting to them
that's if he use Firefox that's if you
use Firefox yeah yeah so you know where
I'm going yeah
firefox iceweasel goodbye yeah it is
interesting though because I fear and
I'm this is just complete layman's
perspective okay I do know that in the
past for various places that I've worked
they have had internet blockers sure CNS
blockers it should be yes when I use the
Internet at all
however oh can Firefox in the past work
for us and so there was some stuff we
were like we're just gonna bypass that
because we get fire cuz Firefox is using
an external DNS server right yeah so in
chrome does to Chrome by default may or
may not use an external DNS right but in
this case chrome wouldn't work so has
this always been kind of a thing with
Firefox where they've kind of pushed
that edge a little bit more because I
mean I'm going back 10 years what I want
to go back to Jeff is the days when my
operating system determines my DNS
servers fair enough yes okay think about
that for a second my browser my
BitTorrent software the programs that I
use to aggregate my RSS feeds those
programs have no right from my
perspective to administer my DNS
settings correct thank you who should
set the DNS settings but me great and
those programs should honor that it's
and should like forcibly honor that if
they try to override it guess what
Firefox is off of all of the computers
that I own period I think though we live
in a day and age where people are not
tech savvy that's a problem I know but
they love their time I say that with all
due respect yeah because you don't know
that this is happening to you exactly
and so I think we've mean when Facebook
first came out with their whole we're
gonna reveal everything to the world
unless you say don't that changed the
internet game yeah and so we've now seen
tech companies go oh oh I don't have to
follow those social construct rules that
I did before all right we're gonna
change it up we're gonna do it this way
and so tech is now deciding how our
lives live as opposed to us deciding how
tech is supposed to operate
and that's just a change in society
we've allowed it to happen and the more
tech we use with the less oversight the
more then get away with the stuff and
people don't care they want to know when
I turn it on does it work that's a
problem
and in this case Mattila is making the
decision saying it's more important to
the users that they know that their
internet service provider is not
listening then the user having control
over the content that they're children
sees and that's an assumption that I
don't think the web browser developers
should have the right to make I agree
that's my opinion that's how we end the
season only comment below if you agree
with us as well no just just comment I
want to hear from you I want to know
what do you think a blind man has helped
develop a smart cane that uses Google
Maps and sensors to navigate the world
cities are difficult to navigate at the
best of times but for people who are
visually impaired they can be like an
obstacle course and a maze wrapped into
one a UK national travel survey found
that adults with mobility difficulties
took 39 percent fewer trips than those
with no disability in 2017 now a new
smart cane is set to change that by
revolutionising the way blind people can
navigate the world in order to guide its
users around both low-hanging objects
and obstacles above chest level the we
walk smart cane uses ultrasonic sensors
to warn of nearby impediment through
vibrations in the handle the cane
designed by engineers from young guru
academy or yga
in Turkey can also be paired with the we
walk smartphone app via bluetooth using
the touchpad controls on the smart cane
the user can control the their
smartphone without taking it out of
their pocket leaving one hand free for
other tasks the tech doesn't stop there
though native integration with voice
assistant and Google Maps software
enables the cane to use its built-in
speakers to inform the user of nearby
stores and in
structural details that they may not be
able to see we walk CEO and co-founder
her sat silent who is also blind says
that he helped to develop the cane out
of a desire to use modern technology as
a tool for the visually impaired in a
world where there's talk of flying cars
he can't get his head around why blind
people are still just using a stick to
get around he says quote as a blind
person when I'm at the metro station I
don't know which is my exit I don't know
which bus is approaching or which stores
are around me that kind of information
can be provided with the we walk and
quote
currently the startup cells that we walk
for about $500 of course as they gain
momentum the price may change but the
features will also continue to be
improved and enhanced I love it this is
cool yeah this is a pretty big deal for
me I mean you deal with a lot of elderly
patients how many of them are visually
impaired sasha is a personal support
worker a care worker have personal
clients who are visually impaired and or
completely legally blind I feel as
though even inside the house that we
walk came with me of so much use right I
we have a place in town called five
points yes yes okay it's called five
points for a reason it's five
intersections that come together at one
point
it's yeah and it's way cool to drive
through it let alone walk through it
well we my wife and I never really go
into that end of town but we did for a
social gathering for family just
recently and at Five Points now when
it's time to walk there's a
beep-beep-beep for the visually impaired
that tells them it's time to start
walking out into the five points yes two
people ran a red light in front of us Oh
two people yeah and I looked at my wife
and I said if you were blind like
hearing this beep beep beep beep telling
me it's safe how would I know exactly
two people right in front of us that's a
bigger social issue though because I see
bread lecture time but this uses
ultrasonic wave waves okay so it senses
movement and something coming at you and
can vibrate and say okay stop
yeah right from the from a smart cane I
love that you know the other thing that
I thought of while reading the story is
you know the glasses Google glass the
Google glass like a blind version of
that right so if you put Google as a as
somebody who's legally blind but with
not not complete vision loss but if you
put Google glass on and had the cane
then like major signs and stuff could
show up in a really high definition in
your Google glass as well mhm right
because everything yeah everything's
integrated I've seen people with the
modified readers where they slide the
the paper under the it projected really
large well if that was happening
integrated with the cane and the glasses
I'm curious to know yeah I don't know if
if someone who's that visually impaired
could use Google glass because it is
still a small apparatus right but would
it not fill your whole visual field
if program do so I don't know that's a
good question if anyone with experience
with Google glass I'd love to know this
is a cool story this brings up the world
to people yeah it's it's game-changing
to even have the confidence to go check
your mail yourself yeah right I get to
somebody's house sometimes and I I have
to go and check to to see if they're
male at the front of the house it has
been delivered sure because they can't
get out themselves to do it yeah can you
imagine like just the independence of
being able to do something as simple as
that
well I mean at the end of the day the
whole point of accessibility is to to
remove those barriers that prevents
people from normal life and so something
like this is a huge accessibility device
and I love it
it's great and five hundred bucks is not
that bigoted no no now think about the
cost of a seeing-eye dog what exactly I
mean just to put just a little spin on
it but yeah I mean really I mean give
give the dog a break for just an
afternoon and go for a walk with your we
walk and it'll tell you where the still
and you know dog can't do that hey there
you go you mentioned that you can have
one hand free so you've got your your
dog yes and you've got your cane
you've got the the brains of the dog and
that and everything that comes with that
and these smarts from like the smart
information the informational smarts of
Google assistant who would tell you
approaching your bus stop and whether or
not the buses yep which bus is it this
is bus that's going to the mall or the
one that's going to your house right
that's cool that's very clever and I
love what he said which is why are we
still using a stick yeah like let's
smarten things up here folks
yep all right I got to take a look at
coin gecko here's what the crypto market
looked like as of 1800 hours Eastern
Time on Wednesday September 11th 2019
Bitcoin is a loser this week losing five
hundred and twelve dollars in 71 cents
u.s. still holding pretty strong though
at ten thousand one hundred and three
dollars and 22 cents u.s. Facebook
libras still not try a trading litecoin
is at 68 71 US dollars aetherium at 176
85 Manero has gained very little at 70
301 I mean everything is pretty static
right now Scala aka torque aka stellite
is down to 0.55 I think they're losing
some market confidence with all the
changes and everything and people are
not sure where to go turtle coin is also
down a little bit at 0.3 to ten
thousandth of a cent and sorry Scala was
0.55 ten thousands not a cent remember
the cryptocurrency market is always
changing it's volatile and it is never
going to close so it's a 24-7 market so
when you go to bed at say 10 o'clock at
night the market is still changing so
you know you can't possibly be on top of
the cryptocurrency markets as a trading
mechanism so whenever you invest
whenever you decide to put something
into the cryptocurrency market our
recommendation here category five is to
only invest what you're willing to lose
and we wish you well with that and we do
have a tip jar if you do well keep that
in the back of your mind yes
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five dot TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Jeff Weston
[Music]
