who is the bald nerd oh hey sorry this
is awkward I didn't see you there
this week on category five technology TV
we're gonna be getting started with the
basics of mikrotik routers it's a series
that is going to help you secure your
home or office network and we've got to
start somewhere so we may as well start
with the getting started we're gonna be
setting up our router for the first time
today and then through the course of the
series you're going to be learning how
to harden that network and make things
as safe as they possibly can be using a
device that is much more affordable than
should be possible for the feature set
that's micro tip stick around we're
going to get started right after this
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 dot TV I'm
Robby Ferguson thank you so much for
being here with me again this week I'm
in the production studio aka the bridge
the bridge is what we call it here at
category 5 technology TV at Studio e so
we're starting a series on micro tech
routers these are a disruptive
technology in that they provide features
that are only available generally on the
market as enterprise level features so
you've got to pay a lot of money to get
these kinds of features well these
little guys from mikrotik are able to do
it a lot cheaper we're talking about 10%
of the price so it is a great thing and
it allows us to create a better home
network a better office network perfect
for SMBs or self-employed people so if
that is you or if you just want to make
your home network as good as can
possibly be
well this series is for you we're gonna
take you through I'm going to take you
through everything from the basic set up
today all the way to creating a guest
Wi-Fi network that is going to allow
your kids friends to use the Wi-Fi
without actually risking the integrity
of your personal data there's a lot that
we can do with a micro tech router and
we're gonna help you through that
throughout the course of this series the
series is available at cat5 dot TV slash
mikrotik so make sure you go there and
you're going to see each of the videos
plus the hardware that is going to be
required speaking of hardware now I have
opted for the micro tech hap AC router
board RB 9 6 - UI GS and the reason that
I've opted for this particular model is
well there's a few different things
essentially it has Gigabit Ethernet now
my internet here at the studio is
gigabit internet so if I had a router
that only did 10 over 100 I'm gonna
actually only be getting a hundred
megabits per second on my internet
service even though it's capable of so
much more so I absolutely needed to
ensure that my router is going to
support the Gigabit Ethernet so that and
the gigabit internet so that I'm not
losing some of the speed of my internet
connectivity that's very very important
second to that is the fact that it has a
dual radio so 2.4 and 5 gigahertz Wi-Fi
so I can put my cameras on 2.4 gigahertz
which is a pretty oversaturated band but
at the same time I can have 5 gigahertz
for my phone and my other devices so
that I've got better speed better
connectivity and it's gonna work really
really well
it supports 802 11 B G and n Wi-Fi
capability all from within this little
device that is not gonna cost us a whole
lot of money you can find out more about
the product line go to our website cap v
dot TV slash mikrotik and follow the
link and that's going to take you to an
index so what is interesting I should
say I've already kind of covered this in
the introductory video a couple weeks
back but just to be clear what is neat
about mikrotik is that it is not limited
by software so the firmware of the
router does not restrict you in the same
way that a traditional consumer router
would typically you have to pay more for
more features well mikrotik and their
router board OS if they it is completely
wide open as far as feature set goes so
the only consideration as you buy a
micro tech device is what is the
hardware going to do for you so you need
to make sure that it's that the device
that you're buying is going to meet your
needs is this
the right device for you I don't know
you may be able to get away with a
lesser one something a little smaller a
little bit a little less expensive and
and you can go through the list of their
hardware and figure out which one is
right for you but keep in mind the
software that runs it from the very
cheapest 30 40 dollar router that
mikrotik makes all the way up to the
very most beautiful rack-mountable $600
unit the software the firmware the
capabilities of the programming are
completely the same so the only
limitation is based on hardware so you
can start off with something really
cheap and work your way up later you can
upgrade if you need something better
that's pretty cool
so again cat5 dot TV slash mikrotik the
now all all that I've done is plugged in
the power so far but what we need to do
first and foremost is I need to bridge
my internet modem so my internet service
provider has provided an internet modem
that allows me connectivity but that
modem has a DHCP server it has a
firewall and it's basically allowing my
computers to communicate to the Internet
well I'm going to replace that built-in
firewall and that built-in router with
and the DHCP server with my mikrotik so
I need to do what's called a bridge so
the modem that my ISP provides mine is a
hITRON modem I need to set it so that it
is nothing but a modem and then we're
going to use this device to control it
so the way I'm gonna do that is I'm
gonna log into the interface and the
hITRON modems rcus admin is the log in
your modem is going to be different so
do keep that in mind it's gonna be the
IP address of your gateway you can find
out more by contacting your ISP if
you're not sure how to do that but just
ask them hey how do I bridge my modem
that's the important thing so it is just
gonna be a dumb modem that gives my
mikrotik access to the Internet
so on the hITRON I'm going to go into
basic and then gateway function and
residential gateway function is enabled
by default
I want to simply disable that now keep
in mind as soon as I say okay I'm gonna
lose access to the Internet once I hit
Save Changes so let's do it
because now I have turned that into a
dumb modem so let's grab an Ethernet
cable and let's let's uplink our router
board so the router board port number
one I'm going to set as my LAN port so
I'm going to connect that into my
network just get this out of the way
this is a little bit rickety because I'm
doing this you know pretty makeshift but
you're gonna get the idea basically port
number one from the router board is
going to come out to my my modem so I'm
gonna plug that in to my modem here
there we go connected and good let's see
yeah doesn't seem to matter which port I
go in I'm gonna just jam that in there
there we go
and now I'm gonna take the cable that
was up linking me to the network and I'm
gonna plug this into port number two on
my router board and that's going to give
me access to the micro tech I say router
board mikrotik as the brand router board
is the product so my network which is my
switch is now connected to port number
two so my computer is basically seeing
port number two port number one on the
mikrotik is going into the back of the
actual ISP modem which is now set to
bridged mode so let's jump over to our
mikrotik first of all we need to see
what's now one thing you're gonna notice
is that I am at 10.00 dot
to find out what my new network is now
that I am on the micro tech ipconfig
/all so this is
in Windows in Linux you're gonna type IP
space - a and let's find out what kind
of networking I've got here okay I'm
still seeing a default gateway of
10.0.0.0 it has not refreshed yet so
let's check so I'm on Windows 10 and
even though a reboot could trigger
basically fixing your network by trying
to reconnect all I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna right click on my 8th ernet
adapter and disconnect disable the
Ethernet adapter and re-enable it and
now once it reconnects I should be able
to do an IP config slash all and should
see yes ok so we now are on 192.168.1 so
let's try that 192.168.1 and there we
are with router OS so in retro ass first
thing we with now this is the quick set
so this is allowing us to quickly set up
our mikrotik router device so let's see
what's happening here so DHCP server
range I want to change that to 10 dot 0
dot 0 dot one hundred two 10.0.0.0 for
now you may not need to do that because
you may be using 192.168.1 ever I need
to I here at the studio I use the
10.0.0.0 block so that is general
networking and not really what I'm
setting out to do here and and teach you
but essentially that's my IP block if
you're happy with 192.168.1 that's fine
I'm doing 10.0.0.0 my router and setting
the DHCP server range accordingly from
100 to 250 for all right so anything
else that I need to set here I can set
up my wireless and everything else I'm
gonna do that
in a little bit so let's just get our IP
address working here so I'm going to hit
apply configuration notice the address
acquisition is grabbing from Ethernet
port number one that's why I plugged my
modem in there and I've set it to
automatically get the IP address so
let's see what happens here as as I
apply that configuration so we should
see that that router is going to restart
itself and when it does we're going to
be on at 10.00 metwork
cheap and cheerful solution alright ten
dot 0 dot 0 dot
two to get everything set up okay so
let's let's renew our DHCP from this is
our internet connection let's see what
it's given us let's release and renew
make sure yes we are on Ethernet port
number one I do not have a live
indicator light so something my cable
wasn't plugged in all the way ah that is
thing number two to do so do you see how
that just popped right in boom I am live
on the internet so now I should already
have access to say Google yes I am
online let's do a quick speed test
let's see how she's doing
go-go-go so that was a pretty miserable
download speed upload speed not terrible
test again something's up there maybe
we're just in that you know that
pandemic internet speed everything is
pretty slow right now yeah getting
pretty low speeds so even still a 10
over 100 router would only give me up to
100 megabits and I'm pushing 156 right
now that's pretty bad considering I'm
supposed to have a gig but at least I
know that I'm getting better than 100
megabits a second so there we go
everything looks pretty well set let's
jump into web Figg now this is what
makes the mikrotik so very powerful this
is the software which you will get lost
if you try to find your way through here
and note that that's as quick as it was
to get everything up and running but I
am going to need to set up things like
under IP I can set up DHCP reservations
so as my devices connect I can actually
set these up as static devices you'll
notice it's counting backwards so my
computer actually got to 54 so it's
actually starting at the high end of the
DHCP pool and working its way down which
is fine if I wanted to I could make that
static by simply clicking on make static
again I'm an IP dhcp server i've single
clicked on my computer and i can click
on make static i'm not gonna do that but
i will need to do that with things like
my server when i bring those online so
that is really like really cheap and
cheerful quick setup of my network now
let's actually get Wi-Fi up and running
so Wi-Fi is pretty straightforward i'm
going to add a Wi-Fi password of
dum-dum 1 2 3 don't actually do that I'm
doing that for the sake of the
demonstration
okay so network name on 2 gigahertz I
can leave it as is or I can say cat 5 TV
2 point I guess I can't I'm not sure if
I can have a point in there or not I'll
go cat 5 TV and then for 5 gigahertz
I'll go cat 5 TV 5 gigahertz yeah all
right so see the options here B G B G n
BG n GN and then we've got a and a n a n
a see only AC and n with a see there's
my password okay so looks good apply
that configuration now one of the things
that's really really neat about this
okay first of all you notice I'm not
having to reboot my router every time
and notice I'm starting to pick up some
Wi-Fi connectivity here I don't have to
reboot every time I change the
configuration and when I create any kind
of config it's instantaneous so but what
is cool about web fig this web interface
so notice I'm accessing this through the
IP address of the router is that if I
were to brick my mikrotik and I don't
want to lose the settings that I've
created presumably you've backed them up
because you can within web fig that's
part of the system so if I jump into
that do you I want to say it's in system
system to do recent reboot ports see how
vast this is I will find and cover
backing up your micro spec oh there's a
sub out dot riff file so that will do it
but if you were to cause a problem that
would not that would make it so that you
cannot log in to this mikrotik provides
a piece of software so I've just logged
out and you can
download and install wind box wind box
is a Windows application it's also
available for Mac and it gives you the
interface it basically detects your
router on the network and it gives you
the same interface with a little more
functionality like micro multitasking
but even if you cannot get into the web
interface you can use wind box
I say it's a Windows application you can
download it and run it in wine on your
Linux box so do not be concerned about
that notice I can log in with no
password so I want to go into quick set
and just set myself password on my
router dum-dum 1 2 3
dum-dum 1 2 3 and apply that config and
so now if I log out and try to log in
again its gonna say authentication
failed so I'm gonna try dum-dum 1 2 3
enter make sure you use smart passwords
ok folks
best way to do that is use a tool like
like LastPass and generate a secure
password ok grab that make that your
password and and then use LastPass or
whatever password manager you're using
in order to memorize it and that's going
to keep you a lot safer
of course the interface is only
accessible within my network so it can
be something that's familiar to you as
well so that is so we've got Wi-Fi
working presumably so let's see if I
bring up my phone here and drag down
let's bring up our Wi-Fi networks and
you will see cat 5 TV 5 gigahertz is
there and ready for me to connect I'm
going to try it connect to it and type
dum-dum
1 2 3 connect and obtaining IP address
and I'm in done and it's detected cat 5
TV the 2 gigahertz as well and I'm
connected so now if I go I pee and then
DHCP server and go into my leases you'll
see that there's a new device that's my
phone so I can make that static and I
can and notice that is the polka phone
okay phone f1 Robbie
so it's as
because that to pick things up be able
to configure it and literally we we just
set up our internet and got up and
running in a matter of minutes what are
we gonna do for the rest of the show
folks what are we gonna do
so checkout cap five dot TV slash
mikrotik these devices are affordable
they are powerful we're gonna learn all
kinds of amazing things that we can do
with this it's so much better than the
built-in firewall and protection that
comes with your ISPs modem it removes
the ISPs ability to be able to connect
in and access your network that's
important think about that for a second
when you install a a modem from your ISP
your internet service provider they have
access to that remember when I bridged
it that made them lose access to it now
the only device that they can see if
they're trying to track is the the
mikrotik they cannot access it however
they might be able to see just that
there is a device connected I could
connect another hundred computers they
would still only see one device
connected so it gives you a fair amount
of privacy against the ISP snooping as
well and that said it's giving you a
huge amount of privacy against script
kiddies and hackers and everything else
but at the same time we're gonna be able
to create a safer network within our
internal infrastructure which is going
to be fantastic I mean it's so nice to
be able to give out a Wi-Fi password to
your friends and family as they come and
visit but you don't want them to have
access to the files on your server to
your printer to using all your bandwidth
as you're trying to you're trying to do
something online and something's weird
it's running so slow well little did you
know that somebody who you gave your
Wi-Fi access to is downloading a movie
from next door right so these are things
that we're gonna be able to prevent with
our mikrotik so check out the series
cat5 TV slash mikrotik it's gonna be
amazing and we're up and running I'm
gonna put this in the rack and I'm
excited because this is a
a better solution for my network check
it out cat 5 TV slash Microtech I do
have to take a really quick break when
we get back we've got back on down with
the news stick
welcome back with this week's top tech
stories here's Becca
here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom there's a black hole
lurking within a thousand light years of
Earth and people in the southern
hemisphere can see stars circling it
with the naked eye two terabytes of
Nintendo source code was leaked Facebook
trained their AI chat BOTS using reddit
posts Tesla has applied to become an
electricity supplier in the UK the Poco
f2 pro smartphone with the qualcomm
snapdragon 865 has launched globally and
twitter will allow employees to work
from home for as long as they want stick
around the full details in this week's
crypto corner are coming up this is the
category 5 TV newsroom covering the week
stop texting with a slight linux bias
from the newsroom
I'm Becca Ferguson astronomers have
stumbled across the nearest black hole
to us yet the void lies at the heart of
a stellar system just a thousand
light-years away and indications to his
location are visible to the naked eye a
team of researchers were observing the
hr6 81:9 star system from the European
Southern Observatory in Chile as part of
a wider survey studying by our start
binary star systems and they stumbled
across a third object
spectrographic data revealed that one of
the stars orbited an invisible companion
every 40 days meanwhile the second star
sits much farther away from the first
they now believe that the HR 68 19 is
not a double system but a triple system
one that contains two stars that are
both around the six solar masses and a
third object that is at least 4.2 solar
masses that number is much too high for
the object to be a neutron star
Thomas Ravinia spher star of the study
said an invisible object with a mass at
least four times out of the Sun can only
be a black hole if the researchers are
indeed correct the object will be the
closest black hole from earth discovered
yet Peter had drama the co-author of the
research said the team was totally
surprised when we realized that this is
the first stellar system with a black
hole that can be seen with the unaided
eye as a point of clarity the black hole
itself isn't visible to the naked eye
only the stars are for those in the
southern hemisphere hoping to catch a
glimpse it's located in the telescope
ium constellation and will be best
viewed during a clear night and two
fuzzy bright pinpricks should be
discernible
without binoculars or a telescope
although the object seems to have been
ears all along it is escaped detection
until now not only is the black hole
pretty small is also very quiet meaning
it doesn't spew Jets of electromagnetic
radiation
unlike the supermassive ones at the
Centers of galaxies guzzling up the
stars the team has only managed to infer
its existence from the wobble of the
stars that orbit it the team is hoping
to capture images of the orbit to
further establish the distance in mass
of the system's objects an anonymous
hacker leaked around 2 terabytes worth
of source code related to the Nintendo
Wii GameCube and intend oh 64 designs
this cache includes very log code for
the hardware essentially the coded
blueprints for the various chips while a
neat peek into the inner workings of
Nintendo and a rare look at the
low-level design of the specialized
chips that go into consoles don't expect
too much to come out of this while in
theory the very log code could be used
to turn chlochops into Nintendo chip
knock-offs the equipment and expertise
needed to do that would be very
expensive and not the sort of thing a
hobbyist could do and any commercial
efforts would no doubt be torn to shreds
by Nintendo lawyers the leak also
apparently won't be of any use to the
developers of emulators who can only
legally do what they do by reverse
engineering the developers of the
dolphin emulators say in response to the
leak we cannot use anything of any sort
from a leak in fact we can't even look
at it
dolphin is only illegal because we are
cleanroom reverse engineering the
GameCube and Wii if we use anything from
a leak dolphin is no longer legal and
Nintendo will shut us down that's not to
say there won't be a fly-by-night
emulators which include the lead code
but we'd advise serious caution when
considering and using any such tool as
it is very likely to include malware or
backdoors for malicious use Facebook has
launched a new chat bot that it claims
is able to demonstrate empathy knowledge
and personality their chat bot which
they've annoyingly named blender was
trained using available public domain
conversations which included 1.5 billion
examples of human exchanges but experts
say training the artificial intelligence
using a platform such as reddit has its
drawbacks
numerous issues arose during longer
conversations blender would sometimes
respond with offensive language and at
other times it would make up facts
altogether researchers said they hoped
further models would address some of
these issues
artificial intelligence expert Dave
Chopin said that blend
was a step in the right direction but
noted two fundamental issues that still
need to be overcome he told the BBC the
first is just how complex it is to
replicate all of the nuances of a human
attribute like the ability to hold a
conversation a sip a skill that most
three-year-olds can master the second is
around the relationship with the data
used to train the model and the results
generated by the model it goes on to
explain as great a platform as Retta is
training algorithms based on the
conversations you find there is going to
get you a lot of chaff amongst the wheat
Facebook also compared blenders
performance with the latest version of
Google's own chat BOTS Mina it showed
people two sets of conversations one
made with blender and the other with
Mina conversations included a wide range
of topics including movies music and
veganism Facebook said the 67% of
respondents through blender sounded more
human than Mina the researchers noted we
achieved this milestone through a new
chat bot recipe that includes improved
decoding techniques novel blending of
skills and a model with nine point four
billion parameters which is 3.6 times
more than the largest this existing
system building a truly intelligent
dialogue agent that can chat like a
human remains one of the largest open
challenges in AI today all right thanks
Becca we've got to take a quick break
when we come back Robert Koenig is here
with the crypto corner and Becca's got
more news stories for us coming up as
well stick around
you
come back for the cryptic corner of your
well this week I'd like to focus on
information if you've been more than one
week with this in this industry and
you've post around YouTube or any other
news outlets you'll have seen that there
is a lot of different information out
there and most of that is misleading
yeah you've got those maximalist that
are pretending that their coin or token
is the best one and that everything else
is pretty bad you have got those that
are shilling coins so they're trying to
sell you something and a lot of people
also have got no clue what they're
talking about so this week I'd like to
focus on exactly that subject I've been
in this industry since 2015 and what
you'll see now is a collection of those
YouTube videos and podcasts that I
follow on a regular basis you'll see the
table at the end of this video and it
will be tabled with the name off of the
podcast or YouTube video and then in the
case of YouTube I also added the
subscribers so that you can find it
easier in case there's somebody
pretending to be that youtuber so let's
start with it
crypto 101 it's a podcast it's two guys
then are doing interviews and one every
two or three days
they're fantastic those interviews
because they're neutral they don't
pretend to be threatening or anything
like that they're just neutral they're
really kind kind and they get the
information that you as a user would
like to hear so crypto 101 fantastic
podcast next one is Ivan on tech so
that's for us here at category 5 an
interesting one because he focuses on
the coding and programming side he does
seven days a week a YouTube video it's
one of the leaders in this industry in
regards to programming and coding the
third one is Andreas Antonopoulos
he is one of the oh geez in the Krypton
industry 2014 he did a presentation in
front of the Canadian Senate he does
probably five or six YouTube videos a
week and the nice thing for you is that
he categorizes them so it's not just
talking about everything he categorizes
them so that it's easy for you to find
or see if it's something that's of
interest to you or not next one is
crypto whereby the O is a zero it's not
an O it's a zero it's a guy called Omar
bomb really nice guy has been in this
industry for a no H long time knows
everybody and has got fairly good news
he does it also around every two or
three days fillet is crypto bud who I
read very high because he is coming from
the trading traditional trading of
traditional finance point of view and he
does fantastic analysis on coins and
tokens and projects he really goes into
detail with us and analyzes them and and
it's very good what he does followed is
Laura Shin I would say she's the only
real journalist in this industry and
when she has got somebody that she
interviews those interviews go in depth
and in a really professional so I love
to listen to Laura shins podcasts crypto
daily it's the next one
he is the fun guy of this industry if
you interested in memes combined with
some information then he's the right guy
for you if you want to enlighten your
life a little bit then yes definitely go
with crypto daily the modern investor is
somebody that never shows his face he
sits somewhere in Europe and he reads
the news as he finds them on all those
news heartless oz left us outlets that
exists he does it very well he
also gives his own opinion on those yeah
the modern investor next one is Stefan
laverra it's not somebody if you want to
geek out that's the right person for you
behind Andreas Antonopoulos II I would
say he is the one who has got the most
detailed knowledge of products wallets
exchanges everything he does interviews
and he has always also the top people
lined up so Stefan leave ever for the
technical people box mining next one is
also technical he was a programmer game
programmer is based in Hong Kong and
that's also very good analysis of koto
concerns
the moment he mixes a lot of news from
Hong Kong and China in regards to the
virus that is currently going around and
but when he goes to crypto his knowledge
is very good and also unbiased last but
not least is data - I would say he's the
best one doing technical analyst
analysis so if you're into technical
analysis then data - is the right person
he has got very good knowledge huge
follow base and knows knows the market
also very well so all those here that I
just mentioned are those that I am
watching on a regular basis I rate all
those as mutual people that really know
what they're talking about
so that's the ones that I recommend to
you and as you will see in a second
you'll have that table behind me so you
don't have to write things down anyway I
wish a great week all the best see you
next week and stay safe bye
[Applause]
thank you Robert
just a reminder for you viewing at home
we are not giving financial advice here
on the show however we're just giving
you the facts and letting you run with
it keep in mind though that the
cryptocurrency market is always changing
always evolving and is always volatile
so we suggest only invest what you can
afford to lose now with more of your
tech news here's Becca Thank You Robby
best known for its electric cars Elon
Musk's company Tesla also makes
batteries that store renewable energy on
both domestic and industrial scales and
they have applied to become an
electricity supplier in the UK the
application was lodged at the end of
March with the UK's gas and electricity
markets Authority for a license to
generate electricity to supply any
premises in Great Britain there has been
lower demand for electricity during
lockdown as a result of the corona virus
pandemic with many factories and major
businesses having to shut down but
electricity supply and demand has to be
balanced within the grid for it to
function being able to generate and
store our own electricity does have its
appeal especially if the grid becomes
unbalanced and requires the power to be
cut temporarily in addition Tesla has
developed software called Auto bitter
that allows customers to sell surplus
electricity back to the grid
automatically they use auto bitter in
South Australia but it's not yet clear
if they plan to build similar large
battery plants in the UK which are
required to store the surplus a home
version of the Tesla battery the
powerwall cost thousands of British
pounds and requires a set of solar
panels you may remember the polka phone
f1 now the poco f2 Pro has launched
complete with the Qualcomm Snapdragon
865 an impressive 8k video recording the
polka phone f1 was a rare Beast and an
actual example of a flagship killer now
almost two years later
it's finally time for an upgrade the
poco brand began as a sub brand of
Chinese phone manufacturer show me but
with the success of the f1 it was
decided that it could stand on its own
and they broke it out into its own
independent company based in India
following the f1 they rebranded the
mid-range redmi k 30 calling it the poco
x2 now the new f2 model is essentially a
rebranded K 30 pearl the poco f2 pro
brings a long list of improvements
compared to the f1 starting with the
latest chipset a snapdragon 865 is the
best chip from qualcomm yet and one of
the first to feature GPU drivers that
can be updated which might improve the
phone's longevity a lot of emphasis was
placed on the liquid-cooled 2.0 Tec with
a vapor chamber that in itself is larger
than competing phones poco says this
will enable more efficient cooling the
f2 pro runs Android 10 out of the box
with poco launcher 2.0 dark mode is
available which looks gorgeous on the
upgraded AMOLED screen storage now
starts at 128 gigabytes there's also a
256 gigabytes option which we'd
recommend since they've removed the
microSD slot and the 8k video can eat up
a lot of space the storage is fast UF u
FS 3.1 up from 2.1 on the f1 the new
camera on the foot on the poco f2 pro
may be what pushes diehard poco Fong f1
fans to upgrade the phone has four
rear-facing camera sensors the setup
includes a 64 mega pixel pixel sony imx6
86 sensor
it supports three-time optical optical
zoom as well as dual optical image
stabilization there's also a 13
megapixel ultra wide-angle camera an 8
pixel mega an 8 megapixel tell them I
tell them that this is a tongue-twister
an 8 megapixel tell a macro camera and a
5 megapixel sensor for selfies you get a
20 megapixel camera on a motorized
pop-up mechanism capable of just a 1080p
video that's the one thing we'd really
like
to see improved 4v loggers who are
forced to use the rear cameras if they
want to shoot in 4k or 8k Ultra HD
speaking of Ultra HD the more powerful
chipset enables 8k recording at the full
30fps and 4k videos can now be recorded
at 60fps the switch to mm OLED also let
allowed the fingerprint reader to be
hidden in the screen the screen
refreshes that a standard 60 Hertz but
the touch sampling rate has been
increased to 180 Hertz the poco f2 also
has wide by an l1 certification so we
can play HD content from Netflix Amazon
Prime video and other services the
capacity of the battery has increased to
of 4,700 milliamp hours with faster 30
watt charging and a headphone jack is
still included the poco f2 is available
now through our partners head over to
cap 5 TV slash f2 to check it out
according to a spokesperson for the
company Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey told
employees on Tuesday that many of them
will be allowed to work from home in
perpetuity even after the corona virus
pandemic ends in an email first obtained
by BuzzFeed news Dorsey said it was
unlikely that Twitter would open his
offices before September and that all in
person events would be canceled for the
remainder of the year the company will
accept assess its plans for 2021 events
later this year the spokesperson said we
were uniquely positioned to respond
quickly and allow folks to work from
home given our emphasis on
decentralization and supporting a
distributed workforce capable of working
from anywhere the past few months have
proven we can make that work so if our
employees are in a role and situation
that enables them to work from home and
they want to continue to do so forever
we will make that happen if not our
offices will be there warm and welcoming
selves with some additional precautions
when we feel it's safe to return
Twitter's new policy comes as businesses
around the world are struggling to adapt
to social distancing guidelines and
rethinking how they will operate in a
post
endemic world major tech companies such
as Facebook Google and Microsoft were
early to move to a work-from-home model
and have also been the most cautious in
planning for moving employees back into
the office Google has told employees
that the vast majority of them will work
from home until 2021 though some will
return in the early summer Facebook will
similarily start to reopen offices after
the July 4 weekend but will let
employees who are able to work from home
do so until next year
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and if you appreciate what we do
become a patron at patreon.com slash
category 5 from the category 5 TV
newsroom I'm Becca Ferguson Thank You
stick around
well folks were still not up to 100% yet
we're doing our best I'm doing my best
here at category 5 TV the studio is not
set up the way that I want it to be it's
not quite there I'm Way behind schedule
as far as how things are going from the
live perspective but I'm doing all I can
and and we're not quite filling the time
and getting everything together the way
that I really want to be doing so we're
getting there
category 5 technology TVs still here
we're still strong we're growing where
we're learning and we're evolving in our
new space but we're not there yet so hey
stick it out with us visit our website
category 5 dot TV hey it would be such
an encouragement just to know that
you're checking out our website checking
out some of those back episodes we've
got 13 years worth of tech TV not only
that but we also have some really great
features on our website so if you go to
category 5 TV you'll see some new
features in the menu bar for example
we've got a button that says quite
literally feature and that's where
you'll find today's feature on the
mikrotik router that's going to be a
part of that menu item and and well what
does that mean Robbie well it's a way
for you to be able to find content that
is relevant to other content so what
that means is as we proceed with this
series you're going to get to see every
single video that has been released in
that series so you can follow along it
makes things so much easier you don't
have to nitpick and try to find the
right videos and make sure that you're
in order no it's very straight forward
it's a list of videos that you're going
to be able to easily find so that's just
one feature of our website category 5
dot TV thank you so much for being
here with us this week I appreciate you
I appreciate you supporting
category-five technology TV if you're
not doing that yet please go to donate
category 5 TV or even better patreon.com
slash category 5 that's a great way to
support us thanks for being here
everybody we'll see you again next week
