okay well let's start by saying that
it's been a heck of a week it's you know
it's been a wild couple of weeks they
just don't know about it what right
Friday is when it dropped Jeff I know
but that was last week all right last
week one week ago yeah one week ago we
were standing here yes Sasha and I
because Jeff was tardy I I had a very
personally very bad weave on
so you had a hard luck it's when it
rains it pours right it's like it's been
tsunami it's been an unbelievable time
yes be very careful not to look at the
white camera we've got cameras all
around us yep so right now we're over
there yep yeah and and the community
feels us so there is no real show this
week we are live we're here we're at the
studio because we promised you that we
always would be yep week after week but
there's no show that is correct there is
no show so here's what here's why
there's no show because we need to have
the family chat it's really when it
comes down to this is family night this
is about you the viewers who tuned in
every week to give us your hour and a
half of your life to say we're gonna
hang out with you guys from all over the
globe and tonight is family night mm-hmm
it's not about take jad thank you Jeff
yeah family I appreciate that this is a
family discussion it's been a really
really hard week for me yeah at the
weekend into now yes I have I've never
cried so hard in studio D why the floors
are slippery yep yep let's just say that
I've invested in a new audio rig I've
invested in a new sound a sound rack so
our server rack is is in that yep all
these things because we're in the space
we love this space we've built it into
our space you'll notice that the signage
is down this week yep
because it's already packed yep well
it's on the desk but you know what I
mean Jeff you you talk up so here's the
nuts and bolts of what's going on we
have been in studio D now for five and a
half years broadcast and we've been here
six years because we were doing some
renovations yeah and the landlord has
decided that he needs a space and
unfortunately Gabe gave us months and
months of notice right Jeff you need
Maurice but if by months and months you
mean we have less than a month then yeah
we got months a month's notice so you
mean we've invested in all of this like
invested in building up the studio space
yes putting in storage racks which I'm
seeing here and and putting in new new
rigs over here so you you can't really
see it I'm gonna try to switch it but
you see a pole here what you see here
used to have a week ago a nice crop nice
backdrop for our unboxing here studio
yeah because that's that that is where
we were headed was like let's make this
place as great as possible exactly right
this is all wallpaper which I put up
yeah when I'm pretty proud of that I
mean I did it with volunteers help right
let's go
but because I could never have done that
I could never line that up without Jeana
and Vicki so there's no way though then
like the nuts and bolts of it all is
that we have to be out before the end of
the month yeah but yeah so imagine after
six years and and truly six years so six
years ago we got this space it took us
almost six months to prepare it yeah we
had to remediate mold we had to read
drywall we had to paint the entire place
put up wallpaper everything else and
after six years were given one month's
notice
eviction basically but not for any fault
of errors no the the landlord says he
well his his words not not verbatim but
his words are that he has no problem
with us he has no problem with me
because he's only ever dealt with me
there's no problem with me he's in fact
willing to write a reference letter for
us to help us to be able to get a new
space but he needs to repurpose this
space and I can understand that it's his
place yep
and so I have the utmost respect for
that decision I just wish that we had
more time because it's really really
tough so yeah we'll be frantically
packing and moved yeah we already are I
mean look around I mean it's a mess
right now since Friday I mean here we
are it's Wednesday yeah so the reality
is we Robbie regularly plans for the
show like setting up whatever the topic
is all the show notes like getting it
all ready you want to know how that
really goes down sure Sasha when do I
usually other than the past couple of
weeks has been tough mm-hmm when do I
usually have the news stories written
for you couple days in advance the table
you think the day before
yeah well definitely definitely the day
before definitely the day before usually
the Monday yes yep well the Monday in
the afternoon the stories are usually up
yeah so so I start writing the news I
read them in the morning that may before
proof them yeah yeah yep that's the
ideal scenario so so I personally am
working on the newsroom stories on
Monday so my Monday lunch hour at work
is spent doing that so that's that's
what I do so that you have them so the
Sasha has them in time so that she can
proofread them let me know if there's
any errors or anything that needs to be
corrected and then we import it to the
teleprompter and it's ready to go for
Wednesday and you've already read it a
couple times by then
I start 10 shows yeah I start preparing
so the Wednesday show I start preparing
on Sunday Sunday Monday Monday is news
day Tuesday and then Wednesday I arrive
at the studio of 4:00 p.m. and I set up
all the shots so that means setting up
the cameras setting up the audio making
sure everything's working and ensure
that there are notes so I we don't have
any printed notes in front of us because
we've already recycled them all I print
out notes for all of the staff so that
you have what just a bullet list of what
it's our script essentially I mean we're
not a scripted show but we need to know
what we're gonna be talking about in the
course at the hour hour and a half so
that's important so I actually write
that out and those are all everything's
done usually before you get here yep
yeah yep that's what I do then we do the
show and I work until 10:00 11:00 p.m.
doing the post-production setting up the
shots so taking all the camera feeds
taking all the audio putting it all
together into DaVinci Resolve and then
Thursday morning I work from 5:00 5:30
a.m. until 8 o'clock a.m. on
category-five doing the editing right
then the that evening because I work
full-time during the day so I then I go
do my day job 10 hours sitting at a
computer doing programming then that
evening I take my daughter out because
Thursday's our daddy-daughter day love
it and so I take her out for a daddy
date and when I get back from that whoo
I sit back down and I'm producing video
from Wednesday's show so the previous
night's show until about 9:00 9:30 then
I watch a show with my wife and we have
some time together
and then Friday morning I start at 5:00
and I have to have the show ready for
kvv be right our cable TV channel in
California it has to be to them before
11:00 a.m. so I have to start so I have
to have rendered edited rendered and
completely finished the show before 8
o'clock a.m. my time so that I can start
uploading it because it takes a couple
hours to upload luckily for me
California time is a couple hours behind
us
so so I have a little bit of grace time
yes so then on my lunch break
when does Robbie rest this is this is
weird out Friday at lunch Friday at
lunch for that one show that I started
on Sunday yeah so then I'm placing the
show on the spreadsheet for our cable TV
network in California yep
that has to be done by lunch sounds like
that's a lot of work right it is a lot
of work okay so then I take that show
Friday night and I cut it up into bitty
pieces I cut it up into three pieces
three section a which is our first
segment of the show yep Section B which
is our second segment of the show so
usually we do we'll do an unboxing and
an unveil of a product then we'll do a
Linux tutorial or something like that so
those are the two first features then we
have one the news room the news room and
that's its own clip but that's about 26
minutes ish then I take that 26 ish clip
of the newsroom and I make sure that
it's ready for kvb be yeah our cable
channel in California
hopefully we're gonna expand that we're
gonna have more cable channels
broadcasting our stuff but now so
understand they've got category 5
technology TV Friday morning yeah then
buy at the very latest Saturday they
have category 5 TV news room which is a
30 minute show and so they are category
5 technology TV mm-hmm and category 5 TV
newsroom so it's two different shows
when it's all said and done and I say
kvv B of course this content is
available everywhere as well but they're
there the one cable channel that's
currently carrying us so then you think
that's that okay you're done that leaves
you Saturday night
is that it no no I still have Saturday
morning Jeff oh right yes yeah don't
forget Saturday morning I really need
that because now I take that news room
segment that is 30 minutes long 26
minutes long mm-hmm
how many newsroom stories do we do 5 you
do 4 and I do honorable mentions yeah so
this video now gets cut up into six
videos yes
placed on Linux tech show calm and now
those six videos are the first videos
from Wednesday's show that the public
gets to see right you start to see now
Saturday mm-hmm videos being posted to
our Twitter to our Facebook to our
discord to Linux tech show com
it starts with the honorable mentions
the newsroom story that I talked about
at the beginning then it goes into the
news stories that Sasha does and by
probably Sunday afternoon because we'd a
part it
we don't allow the videos to all be sent
up yeah at once we we'd a part it so
that means that there is a six hour gap
between each video so six videos
Sunday night you start for the next show
no well I do however Sunday night now
the video from Wednesday has finished
broadcasting all the little snippets
from the newsroom yep and so 6 p.m. boom
the whole newsroom the newsroom now you
have the full half-hour episode of the
newsroom right then following that
Monday morning category-five technology
TV the full length episode from the week
before the week before Wednesday yeah
gets aired right on demand right but
before that can happen first segment a
and segment B have to air right so those
happen that's 12 hours and then the
full-length show airs so Monday
Wednesday show is finished but I already
had to start Sundays I already had to
start Wednesday show on Sunday s in
order to keep that loop going right so
when something like a surprise eviction
happens in the middle of your week how
does that affect me I'll say honestly
644 episode number 644 you might notice
that the newsroom music is a little bit
too loud how does that affect me I
didn't have as much time as I normally
would right for video production yep
plain and simple
cuz you were busy looking for spots it's
Wednesday I got the notice on Friday yes
I have so far looked at five new studios
potential news - yeah the most excellent
studio yes I really want to be
optimistic and I and I really am but
it's really hard it's been a hard we
yeah right and I'm so yes I'm like yes
we're gonna do with it and you'll see on
the Kickstarter and you can go to cap 5
TV slash kick to support us you'll see
that I'm really trying to be positive
yes
I have to be but this does come as a
shock and it's a lot of work for poor
Robbi
because I still have had so I just
finished last week's episode on Monday
yep I didn't have to write you news
stories this week yeah right so what
does that mean now like fur everybody
who's watching like this this family
chat where people are tuning in live
what does this mean for cat 5 for the
next 3-4 weeks what does this look like
to the viewers for the next three or
four weeks we are off the air which has
never happened this length no that
really hurts action yeah yeah yeah okay
so while we're off the air
what are we doing we are packing I don't
know cuz I mean you guys are well yeah
you guys are welcome to to pitch in what
I am personally doing because I expect
nothing of my my staff my my volunteers
my friends but I mean you guys are
welcome to come and show up any time
what I am personally doing is I have to
take an entire studio that's been here
for six years mm-hmm Hackett in a way
they can be reassembled yes but it
doesn't have to happen all at once
but we have to be able to here before
the 31st of March yeah if we are not out
of here by the 31st of March the lot
change yeah the locks will be changed
and then we have a big problem that's
right okay
so my options are I have only two
options
well three options technically one of
them is fold just give up and Robbie
does not give up like something that any
of us want to do nor what do we want you
to do and it's not really an option and
that's why I said to but really that
that would be the easy way out like
crawl into a hole yeah just cry for a
day and then come back out and just work
a normal just be a normal guy oh yeah I
was just on the verge of getting famous
finally somebody recognized me at a
grocery store so you dull a single job
workers no offense
so that option a we're throwing away yep
Robby's a fighter I always happen that's
why we've been here for 13 years okay
this is need to play I of the tiger yes
here right now it's studio D yep okay
we're moving into studio E that's right
we can we can do this so what are the
options I mean there is we find a space
within the month of March yes that's our
timeline we have to fund it yeah I am
NOT ready for that folks I'll be honest
with you so what does that mean at a
basic level well before I get into the
dollars and cents Jeff because I hate
this okay okay I want to be quite honest
and I want you to understand why I'm not
ready for it why doesn't Robbie have
money well we did it we are viewer
supported Jeff but we didn't know we
didn't it's not like we were saving up
for a move correct we're investing in
studio D up until Friday yeah yeah so in
the last month two months I got the new
brick drape yeah I got the new stand so
that the unboxing videos can look as
good as can be
yep we got the new audio recorder so
that we have isolated audio we've needed
that for a long time we got a rack for
our server because our server is that
what to you 3u server something like
that and it's been sitting on a desk for
years so finally we got a rack for that
and we've and and I moved all that it
because we didn't know that we were
gonna have to do this I bought shelving
I have one two three four good shelves
yep for storage yeah when when beau was
here he saw it when bill was here he
didn't we didn't have it yet so all
those boxes that used to be stacked are
now nicely nice and neat on yeah they
are organized on shelving we've got four
industrial kind of like what you put in
your
yeah so have the exact same ones in
white exactly the same only different
yeah so like there's stuff like that
what like there's other like random
things like we have to buy the products
that we review what so I have products
that I have purchased that we were going
to review in the month of March right so
so why aren't we ready to just move
because we just it was status quo it was
we were doing our show we were doing
what we what we do every single week
yeah there was no indication that we
would not be in studio D five years from
now absolutely let alone next month
that's why and that's why I've been
working you guys saw this wall coming
out here with cool signs I got all these
tin signs I've been collecting yeah I
have can I offer a suggestion yeah let's
rename the season
that's like rename it season 12 B season
14 can we just jump right to season 14
for those who are superstitious
that's right idea four shows for the
next month is a soul boo boxing show
that's good okay now I'm gonna show you
how to put an i 999 hundred k back into
the deck oh my gosh that's so we don't
have a show this week no we don't have a
show next week or the next three weeks
yeah cat five dot TV slash kick is where
we need you to go I almost feel like
that name is kind of like a double
entendre it's like about a Kickstarter
but it's also the fact that we're
getting the kick and I'm getting a swift
kick up the butt because hey it'll be an
upgrade maybe oh did I Tippie it okay
here's the thing and I know I am
Little Miss Brightside and I realized
that sometimes I can be a little
rose-colored glasses and such but
I know Studio e is going to be that as
soon as we go live first episode studio
e you are going to say I am so happy
this happened this is it
this is the spot that's a serious
optimism it's gonna feel better to be
there because of the pain of now like
it's yeah it that's just the way life
and some people said why don't you fight
it
your landlord can't do that nope and I
don't fight it because I'm Robbie and
and and that means something like I'm
you just need soils a relationship right
it's like you want us out I respect that
I wish you had have taken a different
approach we have been respectable we're
fantastic tenants folks I gotta say we
are the whole day Jason have hurt ya to
get it out of the building for the
landlord and then he never patched the
hole that the bird came in with so he
came back in anyways but at least I put
the drop ceiling up so right the bird
couldn't get back into our unit yeah I
mean there's been a lot that's happened
here but it's been home at least
I mean we've we've had some funny things
happen yeah we've had two weeks of no
heat now yeah and then at the end one
nope yeah do you want how did this come
to a head
how did this come to a head yeah last
week it was scorching in here Jeff what
was it yeah so we had no heat for two
weeks and then it was like six
6:19 p.m. before Wednesday's show the
heat came on and did not turn off Oh
and so by the end of the show oh we're
late and of course when I got here at
4:00 o'clock it was 15 degrees see in
here yeah and I said to Sasha on discord
I said to make sure you wear a sweater
yeah
and she got here and it was like 400
degrees Celsius what would it be what do
you make better yet beeswax these masks
Bennett type clay I think it's called
I'm picturing like ginger and couple of
drops a tea tree oil so the landlord
then because the heat has not been
working or at least not reliable
reliably he put in baseboards electric
baseboard okay I'm thinking this we
really do yeah these are new we have to
okay and then the next day tells you
that the next day the word was look it's
costing me too much to have you guys in
studio D that's the landlord right I
don't believe it but at the same time
I'm not a I'm not a fighter
yep oh yeah you are just in a different
one a positive way you're not
comfortable so okay yes but I am a
fighter in that I I will beat this you I
will get through this I don't care I
want everyone in our community to
support us in this yep because we need
funds okay so when you see cap v dot TV
slash kick I need you right now however
if we get zero dollars I will I will
find a way I don't care if I have to
sell my might like my own personal
possessions to make this like I'll find
a way I'm a fighter so with that yeah I
think that's that's an appropriate point
to you started to go into we have three
options and we never got into them yeah
so second option is we find a space that
we can rent as studio E right that's our
second option with the cash to make it
happen we have to have the cash sorry I
want to tell you what the cash means so
my goal on Kickstarter right now count
five TV slash kick is arbitrary okay and
it's very very low because Kickstarter
will only pay us will only allow us to
receive the funds if we meet our goal so
if I were to tell you on Kickstarter
what we really need and we don't achieve
that if we fall short by $1 we don't
we'll get zero okay so I want you to
know that the Kickstarter campaign is an
arbitrary number based on this is what I
based it on $800 a month rent for first
and last month's rent plus eight hundred
dollars extra to give us the funds to
install Internet maybe do a little bit
of renovations that kind of stuff okay
so very that is like the bare minimum we
can't even be up and running with that
if we got Internet in for that we'd be
broadcasting from with a white wall
behind us yep okay that's that's that's
what it would be yeah we need more than
that
I've since learned that we're gonna be
paying probably for a studio space about
that eight hundred bucks a month so
first and last month's rent but we are
also going to need a security deposit I
didn't think of that
when I was setting up the Kickstarter I
wouldn't have either and I and I had to
set this up very very quickly and I have
to say kudos to Kickstarter they said it
were awesome
no it's so so like helpful because when
this happened I learned that Kickstarter
takes eight days to set up a Kickstarter
campaign and so I'm like how are we
gonna do this yeah the landlord didn't
give us any notice and and Kickstarter
will take 21 days then once it's over to
pay us to actually put the funds into my
account so that I can pay for the first
and last month's rent and everything
else yep but they expedited it for us
and we are live right now at cap five
dot TV slash kick we've got that
Kickstarter campaign up and running
awesome yeah it only started on Friday
like that's when I got the notice and
and I didn't even start the Kickstarter
campaign then like I didn't even
obviously a couple days ago I was in
shock yeah I said I called up the
landlord
I sent him emails and I said what's the
what the heck is going on what did I
what did I do oh you didn't do anything
right I just need more money yep and
when I say that can I just say the more
money
if we wanted to stay here he would
double our rent oh it's not yeah it's
just not feasible it's not feasible and
it's more than this place is worth
absolutely so there is that technicality
that yes we could potentially stay here
but we'd be paying twice as much as we
currently pay it just yeah it's not an
option it's not an option and and for
those who have been here at studio D you
know that it's just a square it's a
square in a big building and we're the
only tenant and that's what it boils
down to it boils down to they just want
the space that's all that's all so let's
let's make it unreasonable so that they
leave yes Judy is nothing compared to
what soon you will be she's positivity
over here so know you've talked a little
bit that that moves into into yeah now
three I want options I don't money we
clear yeah I don't want option three I
want a here option three option three
option two okay option one is not on the
table shutting down yep
well it is technically we could go out
of business tomorrow okay because if
none of you decide to support us I can't
carry this my daughters in high school
now my kids played a Nintendo switch on
the TV down there there's no way I have
a marriage from my garage was another
thought yep and that's not an option I
have a single car garage I thought I'd
renovate it we priced it out seventeen
thousand dollars to renovate okay so you
know it's not happening it's not
insulated it's not we got to put in
everything plus then we'd have to know
like where do we put our garbage now
when you know cuz you got the garbage
bins that don't go out until Wednesday
yeah yeah
not an option so option one is twofold
to give up immediately which I'm not
doing no I will I will
only fold if we cannot succeed after
trying option three okay so option one
is to fold yep not gonna do it
option two is our community comes
together and says category five dot TV
is an amazing group of people an amazing
community it's a great show
maybe I don't always agree with them
maybe sometimes Jeff is even a little
bit maybe I want to argue with him I
never argue with Jeff
never never but we love this show and
and we we do this because like the world
needs more shows like category five
where it's just yeah it's just great
friends hanging out having a nice time
learning about tech and there's really
just there's no threat here it's safe
for the family and that if you want to
bring the kids in you don't have to
worry about Robbie cussing and doing
whatever else you know there's there's
just none of that last Friday I was in
tears I wasn't yeah so option two is to
get into studio E with the support of
our community mm-hmm because I can't do
it yeah I can't I can't afford it
personally personally I can't okay I'd
love to say I could I really want I feel
like I'm at that I'm 40 years old I feel
like I should be at that place where I
can say oh I've got enough money yet you
know I can afford to do these things I
give to other people and I really do and
I don't need to get into that oh yeah a
generous heart I certainly try and when
there's a need I
I step up to the occasion I rise up I
had somebody that I have never ever
[Music]
really communicated with but I know like
in he's a broadcaster and he went on
Twitter and said I have a need please
support me here's my pate paper
so I sent him 20 bucks I don't know any
I have no idea what he needed I don't
have any clue what what that was about
and I never asked I'm just like okay
there's a need I don't have a lot of
money at all I just I work full-time and
I get paid by the hour yeah and I feel
like I'm underpaid for for my skill set
mm-hmm but that's what it is I'm content
so I'll keep doing it but I need a rose
and I said sure I didn't even say yes
there there's that that that idiom that
says like just you know just give and
and don't even know what you're doing
you know okay so so that's what I try to
do but here's a situation where I can't
I can't do that for here yep there's
just too much of a neat yeah so I need
the community come together that's
option B get into Studio E that's the
best option of course
option C is we can't afford it we're not
gonna fold we're not gonna give up but
we can't do it so we're gonna take
everything that we own category 5
technology TV and we're just gonna rent
a storage locker yep and we're gonna say
we're gonna take all the money that we
have which isn't a lot but you know
there's 1,200 bucks in the bank and
we're gonna say with that money I'm
gonna rent a storage locker until we
expire that fund mm-hmm and if which is
for what we have you look at that no you
can't you're looking at 3 months tops no
no I would expect we could get a storage
locker for 150 bucks a month not for the
size you need for storage we'd have to
get rid of a lot of stuff oh yeah if we
got rid of stuff we'd be good I'm
talking keep the cameras keep the TVs
keep this or we'll we'll get rid of the
debt we'd have to get rid of the desks
and have but like monitors cameras that
kind of stuff yeah broadcast equipment
we could store that for a hundred 50
bucks a month give or take so we're like
really working toward option
- RV option C is only a fail-safe yeah
so options he says okay well we'll go
into storage temporarily and still fight
to try to find studio e yeah I don't
want to take that option it's not a good
option it's not the option that any of
us want I want to be on the air in April
mm-hmm I want to be back on the air in
April April's my birthday month so we
have to do it folks there you have it we
have we have no choice sorry take your
bank account and empty it into ours
that's right okay
it's Ash's birthday month you know one
of the things I have loved about this
show it is totally community and and
even like I think about when Sasha
wanted to do the computer build mm-hmm
that's like the community's like we're
in it we're here to help it and that's
one of the great thing on only the
community but who else you yeah yeah I'm
like Sasha let's do this exactly the
host of the show I run this place yeah I
I own the company but I'm like I'm
all-in let's do it yeah I'll teach you
I'll and and so it became a chance for
viewers to learn how to build a computer
oh yes but so much some of you have
already done it before but hey yeah for
those who have never built a computer it
was a great opportunity that's right and
that took you to the next level - hmm so
then when we brought out the Raspberry
Pi you're just like heck yeah this is
like this I've done like this yeah yeah
folks if you can't give if you don't
have the funds to give that's okay all
right don't do not feel bad I'm not
putting that I'm not I'm putting
pressure on but I'm not putting guilt on
okay I want you to understand that we
love you regardless I'm here for you
regardless you know I mean there are
folks in our chat who I have sent flash
drives of our show to just so that you
could watch the show because you don't
have good internet Yeah right
so don't feel bad if you can't give it's
okay at all if you can give though or if
you have influence at your company if
you're
the owner of your company it's an
opportunity to be a part of something
like category 5 is amazing we love this
place mm-hmm and not just the not just
the physical studio D but the the place
that we've created on the web the
community and and this family and I
don't want to be here just on a
Wednesday night chatting in the discord
which I will do mm-hmm
but I want to be broadcasting I want to
be giving you the latest features I'm
constantly I mean you guys don't
necessarily know even do I'm constantly
in discussions like today I was in
discussions with three different
companies about what features were gonna
do in April
because I had to tell them I'm sorry no
and for companies really because Nelson
who does also messaged me asking me to
do a feature for him you guys remember
him and we love working with him and his
company and he's in PR so we have PR
reps that bring us companies that want
to do shows with us
and I had to tell Nelson I'm sorry ma'am
we're closed for the month of March and
I want to work with you I want to work
with you but I have no choice
so get your companies together and say
this is something we can stand behind
and and whether it's 20 bucks or whether
it's 2,000 bucks it really is just down
to what you feel like you can do exactly
okay so are we able to talk about the
Kickstarter itself what are you talking
about I'm talking about the tiers but
like the like the rewards that we have
set up we've tried to set up some fun
rewards yeah we were okay so I need a
print I just punch you in the gut as a
demonstration is what this is gonna be
so I didn't okay I need to preface this
so when when Robbie is talking about
this Kickstarter he's like hey Geoff
Sasha what could you guys do what is
your talent what you're telling
slash is like I could talk to people and
I go I have zero talents
nothing that I can offer right now I'm
like well could we shoot you I'm going
to be experiencing pain in one form or
possibly two yes as a result of this
there's a guaranteed element of pain if
I may say if there is anyone in the
community whatsoever who has ever said
oh I wish I could shoot Jeff with a
paintball gun and not just one paintball
but enough paintballs like say five
hundred that would inflict pain on this
yeah I do for you guys okay so yeah so
then we're gonna take it to the next
level and we're gonna say okay and is
this okay yeah yeah okay I had to run
that by her just there you saw it happen
Sasha's pulling the trigger sasha is
going to praise your name Jeff is going
to curse it so because if you can't read
been fighting yes back for the person
who contributes the most amount
throughout the campaign a person or
company Jeff will take ten percent of
that in paintball bullets up to five
hundred yep
so we can shoot them finally the
opportunity has a red cent really you
tell me that now if you have any trouble
Sasha we can move you closer what else
is there as far as contributor ship
rewards well for even a dollar donation
there's Mike oh what a bottle if I said
a bike I'm like I didn't know we will
sing for you that's right about that so
I good not many many many moons ago back
when
Wow when you had hair and I could not
grow facial hair you had a band I did
and so you put out an album and put out
three albums two of which went number
one that's right and why was all you
happens to contain a song that both you
and I were on you sill could I just say
so what happened is is that Jeff and I
were we were both working in the radio
station at that time at this point I
view I think we've been in cahoots for
20 years
not not at the student not when we did
soul cleansed no but when I started in
radio it was my question is did you
record that at the radio station or did
you come to my studio I came to your
studio upstairs on the top floor the
corner back bedroom that's funny
yeah so we so my wife and I so it's
always been the case where Robby's
always had a studio so if it wasn't
category five it was music production
yep so I produce music like I don't know
you call it semi-professionally but I
created that's created to her we were on
tour we tax yeah we played at the
Canadian Gospel Music Awards we we were
one of the well we were actually the
first hip-hop band ever to play at the
Gospel Music Awards and I was there that
night they didn't know where are you I
was there the only nice how was the show
I don't remember a lot but I do remember
that you guys were good we were
headlining with keeping it real so that
was our first full-length CD yeah and
and the Gospel Music Awards had us there
to play our title track keeping it real
yep which was the sweet track and it
went number one on radio all over Canada
then we actually on that CD so that CD
this is interesting that CD was produced
because we worked in radio so I used the
studio in between voice tracks
did you I did we had rode nt1 s all over
the place I it's so yep so I pulled up
goldwave and I recorded my vocal tracks
then I sent it over to the power plant
they produced it for me and put it all
together into the tracks and mastered it
yeah and then we released the CD and
very cool we had boxes and boxes of it
in my garage yeah while yep so you came
to the studio at my house yes recorded a
track that's right and we released that
but it is kind of gone by the wayside as
far as now 2020 goes yep it was a pretty
pretty good track at that time yes did
that track Oh number one do you remember
I I don't remember what I have for
breakfast
what was interesting about where did he
go because I mean I'm talking about
gospel gospel music but so Christian
radio but where did you go was
interesting because it was an allegory
so it transcended that Christian radio
mindset and moved into mainstream yeah
which was pretty cool so so it turned
out to be a bit of a love song kind of
thing but pretty interesting in Jeff
being having come to the studio to
record his bit actually recorded a full
verse yep and we're giving that away for
a buck up and I said on on Kickstarter
if we could get 10,000 people to
contribute to that then we'd have a
best-seller that's right yeah finally
after all these years finally after all
these years yeah so but I mean that's
just to start for a buck that's just a
bach like that's nothing yeah
that's a buck thanks man there you go
I'm not giving that back I know I need
it so bad right now I'm getting a song
but from there I mean the the the tears
of donations go up I think it goes from
a box to five bucks to ten bucks all the
way up to the single donation $5,000
are you guys ready for this I need to be
abundantly clear I was joking
and I took at I just took it and ran
with it yes you did and Kickstarter
approved hey Jeff Sascha here's the
Kickstarter I look at it and I get to
5,000 and I go oh my he did it and my
wife is thrilled enough that she's like
I'm give you her credit card enjoy every
moment of the way do you want to tell
them what it is no it doesn't exist okay
yep
no get over to cat5 dot TV slash kick
and if you like to give this guy a
really swift kick there's a couple of
ways to do that
I'm never joking again Wow
I'm gonna do I mean there's chances for
you to have a one-on-one video chat with
Sasha yep there's a chance for you to
have me produce some music for you which
I'll admit idli say I'm out of practice
it's been a lot of years since I
produced music but I am really into
doing that and especially I'm gonna have
some downtime regardless in that we're
not gonna be up and running at the first
week of April that's for sure right
because we still have to have internet
installed and everything else it's a
studio setup you get everything set up
and built and renovated and everything
else so there's a lot that has to go
into it yeah yeah four chances of the
five thousand level thank you thank you
I thought it would be great if I set
that to like five thousand chances what
that actually means evil what that
actually means is
that four people are going to be able to
participate so we're not going to do it
to him four times so for those of you
who are wondering yes we are going to
inflict an insane amount of pain the
women who are watching this you
definitely want to find out more about
this not that we're going to do this to
you four times however up to four
individual patrons pardon me I use the
word patrons Kickstarter supporters are
going to be able to participate in real
time alive with this particular event
yep we're gonna set up a zoom meeting
and you're gonna be able to do that and
speaking of zoom meetings we are willing
to have one right now so because we're
not doing a real show if anyone would
like to join us for a zoom meeting
tonight
I'd love to welcome you now I just want
to say thank you to those of you who
have pledged so far so far tonight we
are up to 794 dollar mazing thing
Canadian of our thirty one hundred
dollar goal and that is just I love you
thank you so very much
third it's so wonderful let's jump into
zoom so if you have webcam that's great
if you don't use your phone install the
zoom app I'm going to create a link for
you and I want you to get over to our
discord or IRC and I may be posting a
link that is special for this broadcast
so that you can join in and zoom will
only allow us to run this for up to 40
minutes so we've got to be we got to be
quick folks so be quick about this and I
want you to join us and say hi so I'm
just creating this link for you you can
see that well I thought so but it looks
like it's not quite broadcasting yet
over this screen I'm just gonna go over
here don't mind the black screen folks I
think can you guys hear me yeah you guys
can still hear me we
can't see me yet I just want to check my
laptop find out what's going on here
let's see display I'm on Linux Mint and
I'm just setting up zoom meeting for you
guys live it's not seeing the HDMI
that's not exactly what I was hoping for
tonight but it's okay because studio E
is gonna be so much more reliable
everything's gonna work it's gonna be
amazing
shutdown only the fact that we cannot
broadcast from this week forward when
this when we are done here tonight see
we're doing this for you and and to
promote awareness about the need but
essentially I have to turn everything
off at the end of the night yeah I have
to I have to pack yeah we have to be
ready that if when the movers come we
and I hope that we'll have the funds to
hire movers
cuz like I'm just one guy I thirty
pounds awesome so that's the limit of
every box get a scale and measure it
make sure so today is the what we're
talking about today is the fourth it's
the 4th of March and you said
Kickstarter requires 21 days so even if
forget about that okay because if I know
that we have the pledges they're y'all
personally fund it okay okay so I will
personally make sure that we get there
we get there yeah
but what I need to know that the funds
are there I need to know that when
Kickstarter ends and the 21 days pass
and they finally transfer the funds to
my account that I'm reimbursed for that
horse yeah absolutely yeah that's that's
what it boils down to okay so I'm marsh
man thank you marsh man making the trek
up the plan is to come up from from down
in New York and visit us and help us
with the move that's cool to have a
viewer that's
that's very cool you know what Marsh man
that's another that's message me and
Dysport like PM me the dates are gonna
be here because I don't think we've
actually met in person yet no
no that's true yeah yeah I've gotta meet
Marsh man I mean I've met Bo and sure
you do from a merit roid yeah we went
out for dinner and got went to a
restaurant where apparently there was
life it was if you think it was a bad
email to have to send out to you guys to
say for dinner it was expensive it was
expensive it was an amazing meal
but then what like not even a week later
yes there's a public health alert that
one of the kitchen staff has an STI and
don't worry none of us were affected
yeah Hank and and proper precautions
were not taken so they had to alert
everybody that oh my you may have come
in contact and we're like so if you
coming for dinner with the category-five
crew I have also not been back for the
time when I needed to get the
inoculation yeah I don't remember which
one it was one of the above yep why
can't I get this working but I don't
know cuz I'm just fed up with tech right
now because it's been such a hard week
Oh could we use Sascha's you have no
it's not that it's so do you guys have
zoom up and running I just need to make
sure that the cable oh I know why it is
oh you started packing up the cables
yeah I've been I've been disconnecting
things yeah so that's that is what it is
right
and doing like I'm doing my best
March man you'll be okay unless you're
lactose intolerance
wow thanks for the transition okay but
it's it's it's just coming out now that
the corona virus is mutating there's now
a second string oh yes yes that's good
oh my gosh we're just full of negativity
tonight we've got zoom Garbi it hurts to
have to say it what are you saying the
Garvey said he hasn't been around much
due to work but it hurts still to here
it hurts you say it's a reality but I
mean we're not going anywhere no I sure
hope not we're just gonna be here for
the rest of the month and I do want to
be clear that there is that chance like
this realistically from a business
perspective okay so let's talk business
from a business perspective category
five technology TV we've operated on a
shoestring budget forever right thirteen
years and so we we can pull this off
because we're because we've never
overspent I'm I'm very cautious and I'm
very careful that we don't overspend
right and we don't have a lot of money
to spend so what can you do no but with
any business a crisis like this there
yeah there's a very real chance of
folding going out of business like not
having the funds if I didn't have the
funds to move into a new studio space or
if if we don't find a new studio space
within the next three weeks and secure
it yeah and get insurance and get
Internet well we don't need Internet to
move but definitely to who we need to
and we need to have a space at least if
we don't get those things then yeah we
go at a business we're a business
technically even just because we do it
for free doesn't mean we're not a
business
we got to pay the bills okay I'm trying
to find you guys the link to join the
okay I'm gonna invite there's our fan
look at that what happened two weeks ago
yep and the fan just arrived yesterday
okay and I'm like I can't even install
it because okay there you go guys
there's ninety five seats to join our to
zoom so get on over there come say hi
I'm gonna pop up our screen there you
guys should be able to hear me though
because I've got the blue Yeti Pro
microphone so come say hi Sachi you tell
me if anyone shows up on the screen
there will ya okay and I'm just going to
add a footer oh well there's Marsh man
hey buddy hey buddy oh now I don't think
that we can hear you yet so hang in
there this is not like your usual
broadcast quality show of category 5 TV
that looks like a very comfortable chair
it looks a lot like Robby's chair just
different color oh really well like that
the back shape yeah yeah it's good neck
support could like lean back and take a
nap in that chair yeah here yeah we're
just talking about yeah we're working on
yeah Robby's getting your setup oh yeah
I'm working on it bill okay you you have
a rest okay let's see what I can do here
okay
I got to figure out how all these
buttons work okay let's see if I can get
that there we go okay no man 5 says he
can hear the fan this time couldn't hear
during the interview that's probably
because of the Yeti Mike right maybe
okay so I don't think hitting it helps
did last week I think that that was no I
bought a new fan I bought a new fan for
a jet boy DJ mics on yay what very cool
let's hang in there folks don't worry
we're getting there okay so I just need
to change okay I need to click on I'm
just learning this new console to folks
this sooner like not because it's so
confusing as far as like pushing the
buttons yeah
like the new sound board thingy yeah fan
really is annoying yeah it is really
annoying okay so I need to change my
monitor selection to affect send okay
check check check okay so you can still
hear me out of the speakers I need to be
able to hear bill that's the problem and
DJ Mike yeah well anyone coming out of
that computer for sure okay so I've got
typing he's typing something probably
very smart in the chat room let's see so
you know man
have a good on Oh
AGGA moto is here too okay oh my
goodness oh okay I'm gonna check I just
want to check if zoom is set to like a
different output just bear with me here
folks don't worry it's gonna be in a
work oh it's gonna be amazing
y'all are gonna be like whoa just so
cool alright output device analog output
that oh it's pointing it out put to the
blue USB audio headphones hello somebody
say something I can hear you clear
alright that works
hey Aang moto Marsh man how are you my
friend I'm holding up holding up heck of
a weekend man Hitler I can't take this
like it's like there's like five-second
delays here and there oh good echo echo
echo echo that's been fun bill just look
into my eyes just know man I appreciate
you dude noise is non-stop yeah yeah is
that better is this better like that
does that help when I do that he has a
severe delay I don't I don't mean you
have a severe but the microphone wait
for a second until the words get oh yes
okay let's make sure that I've got the
right microphone selected in zoom I just
want to be absolutely sure I like being
able to see everybody's faces we should
do it's nice yes although my people
yeah that's the blue so can you guys
hear me okay right now or is the fan
just too noisy no I hear you clear and
bill you you have trouble hearing me or
there's a delay here I'm like I'm
kissing the microphone right now that's
like no I hear everything twice twice oh
do you have the feed up up as well maybe
you just need to know who's that I just
said yeah I just that's all boo-boo
I'm going to turn up our speakers so
that I can hear you guys I love you guys
oh my goodness I got it fixed you got it
this is great and it okay who can hear
us right now
you guys can hear us
No yeah maybe maybe not I don't know you
guys hear us I can hear you you can hear
me yeah yeah okay cool all right
hi agra moto agra moto do you have a
microphone working no now your fainted
well cuz I stood way back there if you
just want me to like get right in here
hey I can turn up the volume on the mic
is that any better
oh this thing is nasty no yeah you got
that can you hear me okay now you guys
hit me all right yeah hi yes I can hear
it we can hear you okay this is exciting
okay so Keith I imagine that you guys
can hear us all yes yep fantastic
all right so hey welcome to the show
well sort of this what a week we've had
it's nice to have you guys here on
camera I have to look over there because
that's what the world is seeing bill I
do would you rather me just look at you
I can look at you but then everyone else
would be like you're looking at the
wrong camera okay what so I could I
could pull this up and you'll see what
we're looking at you yeah okay but I
want I want the viewers at home to be
able to see you that's all yeah
so yeah there's definitely some
inception going on here that's for sure
yes so yeah quite a week folks so yeah
this is so I mean okay that's as far as
we plan for it thoughts concerns yeah
any of those things
so boo did you see this coming
oh yeah yeah this is like oh yeah yeah I
was in cahoots with the landlord we were
like yeah let's just get them out just
get them out can I ask you this your
shed have high-speed Internet perfect in
the shed his shed has a hundred megabit
our studio only has 20 mega vent
oh my god 940 oh come on now we're just
showing off okay so now we got we got DJ
Mike and soul boo are about to go into a
speed test battle oh that's good I
wonder what kind of Internet we're gonna
have it studio e from the previous one
out there 16 megabits down as we're
looking at studio a I have to look at
like what kind of internet is available
and we're talking about you know do they
have 100 megabit and 250 megabit and
gigabit ethernet and it's like it really
reminds me how far technology has come
because hey when we moved in here it was
like 20 Meg's was fantastic yeah well I
mean because we were here we also had
like we had to have the line-of-sight
transmission there for a bit where we
had the thing in the hall right yeah
we've got the antenna easy stuff here
and now now we have an antenna ubiquity
on the roof yeah yeah that's pointed at
a tower across the way mm-hmm good times
so yeah you need to leave that behind
what's that the antenna it's which which
one the on the roof that's not the one
that we currently have Sol boo yeah yeah
the one that we currently have is a
ubiquity like a an access point I guess
like they're like point-to-point fiber I
think they are and there's a cellular
phone company about two hundred yards
away from us and they have a tower on
their roof and that tower has the other
ubiquity and so where's the law really
hey I go moto so we're actually tapping
into their internet 200 yards away using
a ubiquity wireless connection I see no
it belongs to the ISP yeah so I'm gonna
I'll be honest I haven't contacted the
ISP yet because I don't want them to
show up and cancel our internet ahead of
time so and I know we've got a little
bit of feedback I'll fix that in post as
best I can I don't want to have them
cancel the internet before we're ready
to move out so we want to have that
until the end of the month so you found
your voice now
hakimoto you guys actually yeah yes sir
yeah what Sakamoto
I think you have your speakers on and
it's causing feedback I think I think
what's happening is what listening on
the actual feeds and then there's the
zoom do you have the feed online
agamotto because you could turn off oh
maybe that's it yes
now we're hacking the internet okay so
yes okay oh there you go and now I can
hear you great okay so yeah that's
that's how we're currently getting in
yes okay that's how we currently have
internet I didn't want to give them the
notice beforehand because if they just
showed up and pulled it off our roof
we'd have no internet and my thinking
about that is because I want the
Kickstarter campaign fantastic good I
want the kick Kickstarter campaign to be
able to have the live vlogs so I want to
be able to have the live zoom meetings
and stuff so we have to have that
ability to have internet access at least
until the end of the month yeah exactly
yeah so as far as like what we're
talking up here oh boy
like like I want to know how you do that
how I do like like how do you segment
this up and be like okay this is going
to the studio this is going to the
studio this is storage like because I
see every I see six years yeah it's like
how do you differentiate that so how do
I select what's going to the studio and
what's gonna go to storage er yeah I
think it boils down to what we need yeah
and what studio we end up with with yeah
the space end up with a studio same
amount of space that could move
everything yeah so it's not it's not
just about packing up it's a boat it's
just it's just being wise yeah like I
mean like stuff like this like a shelf
I'm like anybody want a shelf yeah you
know but I mean the camera I'll take to
the studio and set that up so this is
gonna be okay yeah yeah it'll be good so
please if you are watching right now and
you're wondering what's going on cat
five TV slash kick is where you want to
go to be able to support our need to
move into studio E which comes to us as
a surprise it's a shock sure but it
needs to be done so we appreciate
everybody's support and doing that back
over to zoom I know I'm distracted by my
strong desire to reach through the
screen and hug each and every one of you
oh yes thanks Bill I needed that Dave's
I really needed that how do we actually
set that up okay so we have like a
category-5 hug room why is it honestly
why is it that I'm picturing a bunch of
piglets yeah like we've got Sonic the
Hedgehog and piglet basically yeah how
have you been my friend problems but
sorry to hear that he's on vacation no
no the vacation the vacation part should
be honest the vacation part sounds
really nice
yes like I take you up on that right now
but the scientists sinusitis though I
could do without yeah there you go
you don't even know man if I walk out
the front door I am up to my knees in
snow so yeah we talked this past week
Kamath that this year yeah yeah I'm
ready for winter meals too much so thank
God good yeah yeah we we've had an ebb
and flow here in Canada yeah at least
Ontario southern Ontario Eastern Canada
yeah that has been another story you've
probably seen that in the news but no
but that was pretty severe so this year
anyway here is not that bad no but we've
had like it comes and goes like it melts
and we're like yay Springs finally here
no yeah we always have these yeah
exactly that's all right yeah that's
okay so yeah good times
yeah we've lucked out here in New York -
yeah he got a snow blower so he doesn't
feel my pain I don't have a snow blower
no you know I put it yeah I mentioned
how small my garage is I I have no Laura
I didn't fire it up once this winter no
yeah Wow I should have fired it up when
we had that big snow this past weekend
yeah but it was sitting outside the
house and it itself got buried I have to
that's all you need those are the two
things that you need knows what she's
talking about am i right
[Laughter]
so yeah there was no blower true but I
and the first minute around it I broke
it my audience gravel oh no I need to
broke something
oh no that's something I would do Oh
maybe see okay boo I'm concerned about
your ability to read the manual what
part of snowblower sounds like gravel
blower what have you tried to throw
gravel out of it bill hey do you guys
folks that are on zoom' do you have any
questions for us with regards to what's
going on and you have anything to say
while we're here well you made it pretty
clear just I'm with you there buddy
yeah but once a year yeah what what what
we have done and now in the past we've
done what we call the cottage special
and the cottage special was me packing
up studio equipment going to my cottage
with the family and spending most of the
time down like just relaxing and
enjoying being at the cottage and then
Wednesday night going somewhere that has
internet because at the cottage there's
just no internet and broadcasting live
from there so we did that from Silver
Beach developments a development that
had high speed internet up in cottage
country because it's not it wasn't at
the time heard of up there we've done
all kinds of stuff yeah that was the
cottage special but the past two
some people have to get away from it all
one politely yeah yep
past two years though I said to my wife
who looked at me with vicious anger in
her eyes yes it's like look we do not
have we got a dog now we don't have room
for all those servers yeah to bring them
to the cottage no so what what we've
tried is you guys recorded an episode
for me so these folks recorded a
pre-recorded episode and and did the
show on my behalf and then I just aired
it so I remote it in and press play yep
and then last year I believe it was I
simply just didn't do a show about that
one week so I have one week off a year
yeah and and that's it
so there was the odd time where we would
pre record a show it's very rare and and
people say well why don't you pre record
more shows and then you can have more
time off but it's actually more work to
pre-record than it is to do it live yeah
which is crazy I know it's a hard drive
space like these are not small shows as
far as space 60 gigs per no it's more
than that 60 gigs for the master for the
for the renders but now we're using
about almost three quarters of a
terabyte per episode yeah which is crazy
dropping or 720 Jake that the boxes oh
sorry
hey just so you know if you're taking
phone calls you are actually on TV as
well okay sorry what was that question
agamotto if you were to drop it down to
720 what would that take it - no - well
our show records at 4k yeah so
everything that that goes out to our
recorders is 4k
what you see live is 720 but the
recording is 4k the reason for that egg
moto is because then in post-production
I can say Oh ash is looking down at her
computer right now and it looks like
she's really bored oh right yes it
happens yeah so now I can zoom in on
Robbie or I can zoom in on Jeff and
Robbie or I can zoom in on Sasha and
Robbie and it I don't know if you watch
the on-demand versus the live but it
makes the show more interesting and and
it allows me to punch in on that 4k shot
because our broadcast once it's on
demand is 2k so we have basically I can
punch in to a half of the the screen
size that the camera provides so oh yeah
so all of our cameras are 4k and those
allow us to punch in and basically zoom
in on the camera without having to have
a camera operator yeah works pretty well
I think for on-demand yeah so I can't I
can't record at 720 our master
recordings have to be huge they have to
be and then I render down from that how
big is the must recording for up typical
initial six hundred gigabytes yeah
that's something that's a very big file
remember when we didn't need 640
kilobytes when Bill Gates himself told
us that remember those days yes yes yeah
because my each has a 20 megabyte drive
and I replace that with 170 megabyte
Drive in order to play a mobile Wow is
there for floppy drives yeah yeah well
and now you've got I installed the
windows 95 using 26
and now you've got stuff like this like
a 260 gig data traveller yeah in your
pocket like in your pocket in your
siloxane yeah brilliant
yeah another thing that some of those
things can compute all right yeah yeah
yeah what about some of those micro SD s
I showed you they're running multi
terabytes micro s oh my goodness yes
insane I can't imagine like can you
imagine the sector size because these
are not multi layer devices right like
they're so thin Wow Oh crazy crazy crazy
well folks we've got a lot to be able to
pull together over the next few weeks
yes yep I love this I think once we're
in studio II we're gonna do this more
now Kickstarter we currently have a tier
that will allow for you to participate
in four of these zoom meetings we can
host up to 95 people and we can just
hang out and just hey talk about what's
going on yeah talk about what's going on
yeah so just like you see here and this
is pretty cool I guys like I mean we've
got the technology to make it happen
seems to work
yep yay I like it that's far I gotta say
as far as Kickstarter sorry
years ago yes Sabu think about that so
20 years ago there was a fifth like 15
minute delay on any satellite video
yeah that's sure you know so here we are
we have now I know that like I see four
people
well three people on the right but then
I know soul boos here as well I don't
know why soul boo doesn't happen
thumbnail only does four does it only
show so many yeah maybe there's a button
that rob5 put here yeah I have to press
the blue blue arrow blue arrow oh look
at us we're so fancy now so I mean we
can but we can host up to 95 people here
so I mean this is what we're going to be
doing over the next couple of weeks
we're gonna have four of these and we're
gonna do this and it's gonna be private
it's gonna be something that we are
gonna release to the public but live if
you want to participate you've got to be
a part of that on Kickstarter at cap 5
DV / kick and you're gonna get to see
some of the stuff that we're looking at
bill yeah I've been to five units so far
since Friday and maybe folks at home
should know this so I've actually toured
five different possible studio units and
I think I might have found one I like
that one bill have you seen it I looked
at the video I like this guy light yeah
see what's Bill talking about we got a
skylight we got a natural and what yeah
that's a nice to do so folks hey get on
over to cap 5 dot dot TV slash kick I'd
love to have you a part of the the
fundraiser I really do need you to be a
part of that fundraiser we got to do
this I know we can can I give some good
news yeah we're already over 25% for the
5 minimize for that minimum ah thank you
so much ladies for $5,000
you can inflict extreme labor pains on
Jeff yeah
yep tell your wives folks 24 interesting
thing Louie just moved to a new store
it's not too long ago that people didn't
show that transition while it was
happening I know you are doing the same
yeah a comment on did the last video
descended from the old store it was
empty and yours is just rubbish less
than us and our mother said that it
couldn't believe that the shop looked
smaller because it did everything yeah
check has changed everything but you
hope that their new studio will show you
I have full faith that it will
absolutely Studio II is going to be
excellent
it will also start season 14 forget
about season 13 it's over we're done
with this yes season 13 is done you know
a superstitious guy but I'm telling you
13 has had its challenges it is
ridiculous not only will we have heating
and air conditioning but we will not
have birds we will not have mice all
these things are true fans with good
bearings so that we don't yes so yes
along that line so the laptop has a bad
fan which we discovered two weeks ago
yeah and that arrived yesterday so when
that arrived so that part that I ordered
it was like a little bit of a knife to
the heart yeah because it was purchased
for this space again like it was like
something to fix
the interviews yeah so that there was no
sound coming off of this so we want to
find a space for studio II where the
computers can be in a little office
space and then we can run wires out to
the studio space we want to have the
studio separate from all the noise so
that we no longer have to deal with this
like we may as well like let's take a
little bit of an upgrade we're not
getting stupid we're not getting crazy
we're just like we got it we've got to
move anyways let's get a little bit of a
better place yeah right now we've just
got a big room and so our servers our
computers our fans everything is in one
spot and you can hear them on our
microphones we want to fix that we want
to make that a little bit better since
we've got a we've got to do this anyways
so you gotta go we gotta go
it's moved down to the basement yeah
just a second you guess that can be in
the basement and then one of the
services what a difference it makes I
just get it out of there yeah it works
all right folks well that is all the
time that we have because I mean Sasha's
looking at her fitness tracker
not looking under steps but looking at
the time and you know what we're we're
so thankful to have each and every one
of you as part of this show we are a
community we're a family in many many
ways and you know what we need go to cap
5tv slash kick I hate that can I be
honest I hate doing this the asking for
help but I cannot do it alone we can't
do it alone we do need our viewers to
come together and do this and it's not a
case of supporting category 5 like our
monthly expenses it's like a keep it
alive this is like okay we're gonna go
out of business unless we come into some
serious cash very quickly because our
landlord has said we need the space back
and you have to be out by the end of the
month
yeah I didn't expect this none of us did
and
and so it's just one of those things
that we've got to either deal with and
and overcome or fold and and I that's
not an option
nope we shall overcome absolutely
absolutely so cannot can I make a
faith-based statement and say see you
next month yes yeah yes yeah for you
that's it like thanks I'll be there's no
more shows this week so yet this month
yeah Marlon March were closed so as soon
as we're done here right now Sasha's
already packed up her laptop we're
taking it apart folks we have to I can't
I can't leave this to the last minute no
I have to shut down and pack up yep I've
got boxes and I'm gonna fill them and so
this is it this is it for March we will
see you in April I have faith in that
and and it's it's gonna be awesome
oh yeah Studio a is gonna be awesome
thanks to you I promise I'm gonna do my
best I'm gonna do everything I can to
keep this thing afloat folks yep that's
right yeah that's right birthday so take
it close amazing thank you so much
everybody thank you everybody for your
support keep it comin this like over the
course of March I will be active on
social media I'm gonna be active in as
many places like as I can be we need
this thing we need the momentum to keep
going keep in mind we need to blast past
the goal the goal is there as an
arbitrary number which is a low number
so that we meet our goal otherwise
Kickstarter will say you don't get any
of it okay we have to surpass that it's
not once we raise that we're not done we
have to keep going so that we can
actually make this happen yeah let's
make this happen folks there's a reason
why there's a challenge on there for
5,000 yes
oh yeah yeah so we'll see you on the
flip side everybody and be active in our
social media I'm on Twitter
I'm on LinkedIn I'm on facebook I'm on
discord everywhere you can find me
say hi let me know you know part of this
okay I don't think I've ever said I am
on Twitter - okay hold on I I use this
soul okay you can just go you can just
go she's gotta go she's gonna for a it's
it's Jay Weston bari jay weston bari jay
weston bear you go well you can look me
up on twitter flying robbie Ferguson how
hard is that
yeah Ashley could you leave me your mic
pack yeah don't take it thanks
all right take it easy everybody yes
thank you so much for your support
knit up to now and moving forward keep
it growing over the next two three weeks
and wish me once and from studio D we're
signing off yeah that's it
Sasha you got to be on camera for the
sign-off from studio D bye see ya that's
studio D's gone folks oh thank you
everybody
end of an in this guy's yes yeah I like
your attitude man you know what I first
I was shocked and in shock okay that
lasted about a half a day and then I
just started putting my foot to the
floor and realized that hey this needs I
need to do something and I need to make
this happen so I worked my butt off to
start booking appointments with real
estate agents and everything else I had
to be so now it's Wednesday I've already
seen five different units I've got one
in mind and I'm already working towards
signing the lease and we're gonna we're
gonna do our best to make it happen yeah
but it's got to happen and I set up the
Kickstarter which I've never done before
yeah you got all that quick
I wasn't proud I had to and Kickstarter
was quick too so anything else you need
to take with you since we're closing
this down this is it okay
thanks but your slippers I can mail them
they're hard to access because there's
boxes in front of everything now
don't knock down the shelves yeah you
got it
that whole bin is yours the one with the
pink lid because I say it's about the
only thing in here that's it's it's
ashes stereotypes mm-hmm no it's not
gender stereotyping at all
no she just let I tried to give it to
Jeff and he looked at me weird so are
you with your pink shirt underneath your
sweater and then her pink jacket and
your pink the pink clearly see that's a
very cheery color I'll give you that
credit ya see I just I with the red hair
I can't wear pink goodnight bill I don't
know if you can hear but she says
goodnight all right I'm signing off -
all right guys Jeff and me - jokes I'm
gonna put this together
upload it and everything else just start
packing
love you all take care take it easy
thank you thank you Bill remember to get
some sleep even if you yeah thanks yeah
it's gonna be a mad few weeks I'll tell
you what
yeah thank you yes see you in the malt
yeah take it easy
