this week we're picking up on our
mikrotik router series I'll show you how
to upgrade your router firmware how to
assign a static IP addresses through
your DHCP server and how to route DNS
traffic to your piehole
by default Becca's got your top news
stories including a 10-year time lapse
of the son Tim Horton's under fire for
spying on you through their app and the
world's most powerful supercomputer is
powered by ARM processors someone hacked
a half a million dollars in crypto yet
bitcoin is still more secure than gold
Robert Koenig is here to help us figure
out the crazy cryptocurrency market this
is all coming up so strap in it's time
for the tech
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 dot TV
welcome back to the show everybody it's
great to have you here nice to have you
joining our live broadcast or maybe
you're watching this on demand after the
fact however you're watching give us a
thumbs up give us a subscribe if you're
watching on YouTube of course if you
click on subscribe on our YouTube
channel
unfortunately that bumps our numbers up
and as our numbers go up I'm honorbound
to do crazy things so I have my first
choreography lesson thank you very much
and it will say it's I'm learning I'm
gonna progress as we go so we hit and
surpassed 25,000 subscribers at Linux
tech show comm and of course that means
I got to do a funky dance for you and so
I'm working on it and I got my
choreographer helping me out with that
and it's a surprise who's gonna be
helping with that so make sure you keep
watching category 5 TV and it helps if
you're a subscriber because then you're
gonna get the notification checking out
our discord no man 5 is wondering if I
got to spend the day at the category 5
TV studio being that today is happy
Canada Day and if I did get to spend
some time at the studio today was I able
to dig through the boxes and find my
soldering tools and to that I say oh yes
my friend yes I did find my soldering
stuff
but it's not quite set up perfectly yet
it's a bit of a mess and I'm trying to
figure out like how can I set up a table
I got to get a proper table but it's
here so we're gonna be able to get that
laptop up and going over the course of
the next couple of weeks whenever I get
a chance to do that did I get to spend
the whole day at the studio not quite
but that's because I took a nice long
extended holiday with my family went up
to the cottage and my first day back was
Tuesday so that meant actually doing
some of the post-production on
category-five show from last week on
Tuesday so so we just got the news up
and everything Tuesday night and a
couple of the other features and today
was spent like writing the news and
getting everything ready for you there's
a lot that goes in to broadcasting
category-five technology TV and I really
appreciate the support of our community
coming together and saying wow like I
recognize that this is a lot of work
especially in these times where I can't
have anyone else in the studio with me
physically at the same time that I'm
here broadcasting so so really a lot of
it falls on my shoulders and it's got to
be done I've got to be able to bring you
a show each and every week but to those
of you who have said yeah I'm gonna step
up and say yeah I appreciate what you're
doing and I'm gonna financially back
that I just want to say thanks in
particular I want to say a big thank you
to bp9 Scott Barclay Ron Morissette
Jerry Kowalski Jonathan Garvey Jen's
Nissen Ameritrade nomen v bill Marshall
and NiCad plus of course everyone else
who has supported the show or is
supporting the show may be through
through our patreon at patreon.com slash
category-five that's a really cool way
to support category-five TV and
incidentally you get behind-the-scenes
access you get my vlog which nobody else
gets to see and so you get to see some
of the things as they're happening here
at the studio and things that are going
on in my world as I'm kind of ramping
things up for category 5 each and every
week so big thanks to everyone who is or
has supported category 5 TV
that regular contribution I mean if you
can believe it it is now July 1st
already and I keep saying like time is
flying but July 1st means ok I can't
forget before I wrap up for tonight I
got to write a rent check I got to go
cover that so those monthly
contributions through patreon and and
other ways that you may support us
through our website we've got a few
different ways there you can check it
out at category-five TV but patreon in
particular is a nice way for me to be
able to kind of keep track of what's
going to be coming in each and every
month and it helps us to cover those
month-to-month expenses so that is
really really cool thank you everybody
all right so first of all let's kick
things off with part 6 of our mikrotik
series as exploits and i should say
there is construction going out in the
hallway today and so if you hear some
noise I forgive me that's there's
nothing that I can really do about that
but hopefully they won't be going too
loud and too long but as exploits are
monitored and patched and as new
features are added to micro Tech's
firmware you can easily update your
mikrotik router with just a couple of
mouse clicks in web Figg and you can see
what I've actually what I've got here is
web fig I'm going to click on quick set
and then scroll down here to check for
updates could it be that simple and you
can see I'm running six point four two
point twelve stable you can change the
branch if you want or the channel but I
want to get the stable six point four
seven and if you look below you can see
the change logs for that and everything
that this is going to give me so just
click download and install and look at
this nothing to it it grabs the file off
of their server downloads it reboots so
now my router is rebooting and look at
that six point four seven stable is the
version I'm now running click on check
for updates and you'll see I'm running
that version and system is already up to
date that is all there is to it so your
mikrotik router is now running the
latest and greatest firmware
next in our mikrotik series is how to
assign a static IP address to a device
in your DHCP in your DHCP pool so I'm
gonna just sign in to web fig here on my
laptop and I want to show you how easy
this is to do so click on IP and click
on DHCP server and click on leases this
is an important thing to do because
you're gonna need to have static IP
addressing on your network for things
like servers in my case we're also
looking at piehole for example so my
piehole Server is in fact set as
10.0.0.0 servation in my DHCP pool for
on my micro tech so any of these devices
so these ones are dynamic see these
dynamic Dee the ones that are that have
a Dee button that button will actually
convert it to dynamic but they are
currently static so let's look at I've
got a let's grab my phone there's my
poco phone so I'm just going to click on
that and it's currently assigned to
10.0.0.0 7 so I'm just simply going to
press make static and now it has been
assigned to 10.0.0.0 7 static but if I
close that now you'll see 107 has that D
next to it and no longer is it dynamic
so now if I open it by single clicking
on it I get all these new options and
now I can assign it its own IP address
something that is not currently in use
on my pool so I can assign that 2.88 and
hit OK and now my polka phone is 10 0
dot 0 dot
there it is see how easy it is to
configure a static reservation on your
DHCP pool on a mikrotik device it's
fantastic we've got to take a quick
break when we return
how to direct the DHCP traffic on our
network to army through our mikrotik
router tune our DNS server which is in
my case a piehole stay around
quick follow a question in our discord
from the Fuu who's asking
shouldn't reserved IPS be outside of the
dhcp pools dynamic range and while
technically true in an in a different
type of scenario where you're not using
DHCP that's not the case here I'm going
to explain why so traditionally assisted
mins are basically it's it's ingrained
in our minds to always assign the DHC
the static address outside of the pool
the reason for that is if you let's say
you install a new printer on a network
and you go to that printer and you type
in the IP address and you put it within
the pool now your DHCP server doesn't
even know that it exists because it did
not assign the IP address so what we're
doing here is completely different what
we're doing is we're setting the
reservation in the DHCP server
so that printer is still just getting
the IP address from the DHCP server so
does it have to be outside of the pool
now no the reason it would have to be if
I was typing it in manually onto the
printer is because when the DHCP server
then assigns that IP address to another
device on your network it's going to
cause an IP collision conflict so you're
gonna have two devices sharing the same
IP address and you're gonna get all
kinds of like ARP attacks warning ARP
attack warnings things like that because
you've got these collisions occurring
within your network things are gonna go
slow all of a sudden that's a problem
because I am assigning my IP address
from the DHCP server to my device or to
my printer I can set it to anything that
is not already assigned and it will dish
it out through the DHCP and it doesn't
matter whether it's within the pool or
not all right so as we're here to learn
about how to configure mikrotik routers
I'm going to assume that you already
know what a piehole is I'm not going to
get into
that I'm going to assume that you've
already got one set up if you've got no
idea what a piehole is just keep in mind
that in order to do what we're about to
do you're going to need to have one
while it may sound like something
offensive it's actually a single board
computer or even a virtual machine that
runs on your network 24/7 it acts as
your DNS server for your network it
filters out ads at the DNS level so
since the ad never downloads your
Internet becomes perceptibly
perceptively faster your data usage is
reduced a surprising amount and you see
a notable reduction in the number of
advertisements that you're subjected to
now it can have a downside sometimes
such as if you're browsing Amazon
sometimes they'll present you with a
relevant product suggestion but when you
click on it it's gonna get blocked
because it's an ad but all in all this
is a fantastic solution that cuts ads
way down on your entire network you
don't have to install software on your
devices and there's no configuration on
a device to device level as soon as your
device is connected to the network it
gains the filtering capabilities of your
piehole so if you are unfamiliar with
piehole at this point or otherwise if
you don't have one I did a tutorial last
year that walks you through the basic
setup for those of you who are watching
on YouTube or through our website a
category 5 TV you can simply click that
icon to see the tutorial otherwise head
on over to our website category 5 dot TV
and just do a quick search for pie hole
and it's spelt just like you see on the
screen there pie - hole the video you're
looking for is called block ads and porn
using a single board computer I'll wait
okay so now that you've apparently got
your piehole all set up let's see how to
configure this on our mikrotik router so
on my network my piehole device is at
10.00 - your DNS server obviously has to
have a static IP address within your
network so that's the IP address that
I'm going to be routing my DNS traffic
to so I want to show you a couple things
here in web Figg so I'm gonna click on
IP which is already open and then DNS so
when I go in there you're gonna see the
dynamic servers that my network is
currently dishing out to all my devices
through DHCP well I want to change that
I want to actually set these to be my
piehole
but you notice I can't actually change
those it doesn't allow me to make any
changes here so first what I have to do
is click on DHCP client click on your
ether one in my case which is you'll
remember from earlier in our mikrotik
series the ether one interface is my
internet connection so that's the actual
connection to the router from the router
to the modem to give me my internet
connectivity so I'm going to click on
that
and I'm going to turn off use peer DNS
so basically I'm saying I don't want to
use the DNS that's given to me by my ISP
and hit OK now when I go to what when I
go to DNS you'll see now dynamic servers
are gone there's nothing there and
presumably unless it's cached if I try
to go somewhere it's just going to
timeout because right now I do not have
any DNS servers so now I need to add my
own
10 what 10 dot 0 dot 0 dot
and then hit apply it's done that's all
there is to it in a manner of speaking
but I'm going to reverse that so we've
gone through that process just to show
you I'm going to just kind of I'm gonna
reverse that so that I can show you a
demonstration of what we're actually
what we're performing here what we're
actually achieving so let's turn back on
our pure DNS I have trouble with these
trackpads
I should get a mouse okay so see we're
back on the dynamic so I'm going to
bring up a website and you're gonna need
to do this within Firefox or Chrome
don't do it in brave because brave
obviously already blocks advertising
advertisements don't do it in a browser
that has an ad blocking tool installed
and actively working because it's not
going to actually show you the the the
success of doing what we're about to do
by revving through our pie hole so what
I want to do is go to HTTP colon slash
slash ads - blocker com and the reason I
want to go there is because it's just an
ad heavy demonstration web site so if
you scroll down a little ways you're
gonna start to see some advertising here
on this website there are ads that come
up on this site it looks like Firefox is
actually already blocking some and so
I'm going again you block origin request
blocked 7 or 10 percent of this page can
I turn that off
is that what's doing it yeah now we're
gonna see ads there you go so Firefox is
now including an ad blocker that's cool
but understand so well if Firefox
already has an ad blocker why do we need
to go to all this work why do we need a
pie hole remember how I said this does
the ad blocking at the DNS level so and
I hinted to the fact that you're going
to reduce your bandwidth consumption
you're going to speed up your internet
and
that is because with something like an
ad blocking plugin
or an ad blocking browser traditionally
what happens is is it still downloads
the ad it just hides it it blocks it but
with the DNS level blocking it's
actually the request to the ad servers
that respond with a null response so
it's actually blocking the ability for
your computer to reach the ad server at
all it can't download anything they
can't track you they can't trace that
request it doesn't matter there it's
gonna be blocked at the DNS level so
there's so much more to it so now that
I've got this you block disable you can
see there's a Google ad right here okay
so back over to my micro tick here let's
again go to DHCP client under IP and
there are many ways to do this you can
do this on a network by network basis if
you want but I'm just going to do this
on my entire network because I want any
device that is on my network to go
through the pie hole I can turn off use
peer DNS and hit ok now go to DNS and
add my pie hole 10.0
0.2 and this is all quite instantaneous
however there are a couple of things to
note so I'm going to clear my cache
this is DNS cache flush cache so now
anything that has already been accessed
is flushed out of the DNS cache and so
it's not going to be it's it's gonna
request it a game and go through the pie
hole the other thing to keep in mind is
you could if you wanted to go into the
HCP server networks so instead of doing
this at DNS I could just say okay my LAN
or my these are my guest Wi-Fi networks
I could just add a specific DNS server
for those so I could do that see how
diverse the configuration can be with a
mikrotik so by doing it that way you
could have multiple pie holes with
multiple different settings you could
have a mum and dad Wi-Fi that has that
has direct access through like Google's
DNS or something like that if you don't
want to block things you can have your
guest Wi-Fi have a more hardened DNS
filter for example so you can do that at
a network level in my case as I say I'm
not doing it at this level I'm doing it
on my full network so my ether one is
gonna go through 10.0.0.0 love its DNS
requests so now if I jump over here and
just refresh this page as simple as that
the advertisement is blocked see that so
it tried to load it see how it's got a
placeholder it tried to access the ad
but it was blocked at the DNS level so
it never got to my browser how cool is
that so with this set up another thing
to keep in mind is that while your
mikrotik DHCP server is is going to dish
out this new DNS setting for 1000 - in
my case you may have a situation where
somebody has
maybe a custom DNS setting on their
phone or maybe there is they're running
a browser that overrides your networks
DNS settings that could be a problem
because this setting is not enforced so
this setting can easily be bypassed by
your device so by default your mikrotik
device right now as I've just
demonstrated with this basic
configuration is going to download those
settings through DHCP and I don't know
that download is the right term but it's
gonna get the new IP and DNS settings
from your DHCP server on the Microtech
but if your device has its own custom
settings it's going to circumvent that
so if you'd like to instead and force it
so that even if there was an override on
a device or if your browser was ignoring
your desired DNS settings on your
network well you'll want to watch
further in our series as we're gonna be
looking at how to do what's called DNS
masquerading and with DNS masquerading
we're gonna take what we learned today
on this tutorial and we're going to take
it to the next level which is to say
okay my mikrotik is now going to
basically find any dns traffic that's
going through my network and it's going
to masquerade it so that it has to go
through the piehole there is an
inability on your device to circumvent
or override that even if you set your
your dns settings manually masquerading
will force it to go through in my case
10.0.0.0 v slash mikrotik is covering a
wide gamut of how to set up and
configure and use your Microtech routing
device this is we're gonna be looking
more at masquerading in the future so
I'm dropping that keyword for you
because I want you to watch for it if
that's of interest to you you want to
enforce it get on to cap v dot TV slash
mikrotik and look for that one called
ENS masquerading all right we've got a
head over to the newsroom Becca is here
with us here's what's coming up in the
category 5 TV newsroom NASA made an
incredible 10-year time-lapse of the
sun's fiery rotation Tim Hortons is
facing a class-action lawsuit over
application tracking Disney has been
developing incredibly lifelike deep fake
technology Japan's arm-based Phu gaku is
now the world's fastest supercomputer
Apple backed firm aims for 1 million
Robo taxis and Facebook has developed a
new set of VR glasses that look like a
chunky pair of sunglasses stick around
the full details and this week's crypto
corner are coming up this is the
category 5 dot TV newsroom covering the
week stop texting with a slight linux
bias
from the newsroom I'm Becca Ferguson you
shouldn't stare at the Sun it's
dangerous but this month marks a full
decade of NASA's Solar Dynamics
Observatory doing the staring at the Sun
for us it's been studying the star
closest to Earth non-stop from orbit
gathering 425 million high-resolution
images since June 2010 the data
collected has helped scientists make
many discoveries but for those of us
scrolling the internet for some kind of
good news nASA has turned the
observations into something fun nASA has
compiled the images into a stunning
time-lapse of the stars activity over
the last 10 years the time-lapse
assembles images taken at an extreme
ultraviolet wavelength that shows the
sun's outermost atmospheric layer the
corona the movie compiles a photo every
hour with dark slides caused by the
Earth or the moon eclipsing the
observatory as they pass between the
spacecraft and the Sun the full video
lasts 61 minutes showcasing the sun's
11-year solar cycle with its rise and
fall in activity the shift in solar
activity can be clearly seen as the
number of swelling solar spots increased
to explosive levels with violent whips
of magnetic field lines and solar flares
it then calms down again to a period
known as solar minimum when the amount
of solar activity is relatively low
that's a period we're in now with one
result being that the Northern Lights
are less frequently seen in lower
latitudes it's stunning to see from our
perspective even if a decade is a little
more than a blip in the life of a star
the full time-lapse video in 4k
resolution can be viewed at cat5 dot TV
slash Sun Tim Hortons is facing a
class-action lawsuit in Quebec over data
collection issues in the company's
mobile ordering app filed a day after
for privacy watchdogs announced a joint
investigation into the company's
overreach the court application filed by
two montreal-based law firms on Tuesday
cites an investigative story by the
Financial Post which revealed the Tim
Hortons app
was logging users location data in the
background even when the app wasn't open
the app was streaming GPS location data
to radar Labs Inc an American company
which analyzes location data to infer
where users live and work and logs a
person's visits to one of Tim Hortons
competitors such as Starbucks or
McDonald's Corp immediately after
privacy commissioners for the federal
government Quebec Alberta and British
Columbia announced their joint
investigation on Monday Tim Hortons said
in a statement that it has discontinued
its practice of tracking losing users
location when the app is not open the
lead plaintiff is a Montreal resident
who works in the IT sector and even
though defined by his lawyer as a tech
savvy guy he was shocked to find out how
the app was tracking him consumer
protection lawyer Joey Zuk Zuk Rijn said
that simply stopping the practice of
background location tracking isn't
enough because Tim Hortons parent
company appears to have been tracking
the lead plaintiff since last year and
the damage is already done
saccharin says they've gained a valuable
database of information and behavior
patterns and activities of individuals
so are they now just going to throw that
out or are they going to profit from it
my guess my guess is the latter Tim
Hortons chief corporate officer Duncan
full 'sons Fulton said in an e-mailed
statement the company did not have any
comment on the class-action lawsuit and
reiterated that it had discontinued
background location-tracking
although the app may still record user
location when it's open in many cases of
privacy violations is difficult to sue
because litigants can't put a dollar
value on the harm they have suffered but
the Quebec Charter of Rights and
Freedoms makes privacy a protected right
and that simplifies the case most
privacy and data cases in Canada have
been focused on breaches where companies
allowed private information to be leaked
or stolen by hackers but litigation
around issues relating to data and
privacy could become more common
depending on how the courts respond in
this case and future cases
a new paper published by Disney Research
describes a fully automated neural
network based method for swapping faces
in photos and videos the first method
that results in high resolution results
of sufficient quality to be used in film
and TV
the researchers specifically intend this
tech for use in replacing it and
existing actors performance with a
substitute actors face
for instance when T aging or increasing
the age of someone or potentially when
portraying an actor who has passed away
they also suggest it could be used for
replacing the faces of stunt doubles in
cases where the conditions of a scene
call for them to be used this method is
unique from other approaches in a number
of ways including that any face used in
the set can be swapped with any recorded
performance making it possible to
relatively easily re image the actors
on-demand the other is that it recreates
contrast and lighting conditions to
ensure the actor looks like they are
actually present in the same conditions
as the scene you can check out the
results for yourself in this video as
you can see there's still a hint of
uncanny valley going on here but the
researchers acknowledge that in their
paper calling this a major step toward
photorealistic face swapping that can
successfully bridge the uncanny valley
it is still a lot more realistic than
other attempts which is especially
apparent when you've seen the
side-by-side comparisons with other
techniques most notably it works at much
higher resolution which is key for
actual entertainment industry use
considering the example of using this
technique for a stunt double the real is
realism could come across as being
incredibly realistic the examples
presented are a super small sample so it
remains to be seen how broadly this can
be applied subjects used appear to be
primarily white for instance also
there's always the question of the
ethical implication of any use of face
swapping technology especially in video
as it could be used to fabricate
credible video or photographic evidence
of something that didn't actually happen
given however that the technology is now
in development from multiple quarters
it's essentially long past the time for
debate about the ethics of its
development and exploration
instead it's welcomed at organizations
like Disney Research are following the
academic path and sharing the results of
their work so that others concerned
about its potential Melissa malicious
use can determine ways to flag identify
and protect against any bad actors
Japan's arm-based fugue aku is now the
world's fastest supercomputer an apple
backed firm aims at 1 million Robo taxis
and Facebook has developed a new set of
VR glasses that look like a chunky pair
of sunglasses Becca has these stories
coming up Plus Roberts here with the
crypto corner don't go anywhere
you
welcome to the crystal corner and again
we've got a fully loaded program for you
let's dive into it if we look into the
market then you'll see that there has
been a slight drop between last week and
this week from 277 billion to 263
billion in average Iran five percent
drop between last week and this week we
saw this year by seven days then last
week we had twenty coins that gained
more than fifteen percent this time it's
a mere six coins and on the downside
last week we had two coins have lost
a few more than that so it's slightly
bearish behavior in the market and if we
look into the d5 market then similar
picture there from 6.7 billion down to 6
point 1 billion dropped between last
week and this week now if you remember
last week we went into detail in regards
to the d5 market how to participate in
this market and how the future looks
like but also that their risks attached
to that because it's a very young market
and so this is what happened between
last week and this week a hacker stole
around half a million u.s. dollars now
it's not stealing in the traditional
sense we just take something it's just
that they made use of these different
protocols in a way that they were able
to harvest around half a million u.s.
dollars and the way that worked is as
you remember this one of those platforms
where you can participate and say you
they use the balance of pool the balance
of platform in one of those pools and
they use the flush LAN technology so
with this technology which means a flash
bond is something that happens between
two blocks so it's never registered so
you can take a loan as high as you want
doesn't matter because it's never
registered but between two those two
blocks you can do whatever you want to
do you can do whatever you want to with
that money and that's what they did
so they took out that loan and then they
started swapping between the theorem and
the STA token and they did that 24 times
until the whole pool was drained
again that's between two blocks so it's
never registered but they were making
use of that and every time that this
transfer happened the transfer fee of 1%
was charged to the recipient but that
was not registered on the balance of
platform and so every time the attacker
swapped between those two coins those
two tokens the balance of Poole received
one percent less ta then was expected
and these people were harvesting that so
it shows how young this industry is but
also how interesting it is
and as I encourage you last week just go
in there and learn more about it now on
the other side looking at the
traditional market something similar
happened 2.8 billion u.s. dollars were
scammed in the gold market now that's
something that would never have be able
to happen in the Bitcoin or the crypto
market especially Bitcoin because it's
the most secure platform in the world
but in gold everybody who operates with
certificates or not the physical gold
it's a certificate that's being
transferred and that's where the scam
happened thing with the kind that would
have never happened because Bitcoin was
never hacked so it's the most secure
software platform in the world now
something interesting
somebody published a report that is
fantastic I encourage you to take a look
at it and as usual I put the link into
the description but this report is in
debt and very scientific and fantastic I
loved this report so these they go into
every single aspect of the market so
adoption rate tax evasion remittance and
that on a global basis and they also
look into how the value is going to
perform from Bitcoin aetherium ripple
and egg XRP over the next five to ten
years they predicted their price I'm not
going to mention that here because it's
not what we do but take a look into what
that report says but the interesting
thing is really what they are talking
about so online transactions how they
look they of course you can see it's
really in detail of what
they are analyzing and it's worth
spending some time into reading this
report it's 64 now 61 pages now part of
this is of course as you heard from us
last a few weeks ago is that China is
moving into the the Chinese really into
cryptocurrency and Canada is like most
other countries are planning to do
similar things the interesting thing is
that some experts in Canada are hoping
that the Bank of Canada will create a
more inclusive and accessible digital
Canadian dollar so let's hope that that
happens because that would be beneficial
for everybody in the world and the last
one is a coin base they have got a
section where you can earn money by just
learning something so you go into coin
based comm and then slash earn and then
you have got here section where you can
just by learning something earn money
and it's I think in total over $400 and
they just started this one here the
compound course where you can earn nine
compounds nine dollars worth in compound
by just taking the course now you have
to be fast because these things sell out
pretty fast but it's just another way on
how you can make some money but you can
make some money anyway that's it for me
this week I hope you enjoyed it I hope
you learned something and I'm looking
forward to see you next week so thank
you very much for watching thanks
bye-bye thank you Robert just a reminder
that we're not providing financial
advice but just sharing what's happening
in the cryptocurrency market always
remember that the cryptocurrency market
is ever-changing and always volatile so
you should only spend what you can
afford to lose now back to Becca in the
newsroom Thank You Robbie according to a
semi annual ranking announced by the US
European top 500 project on Monday
Japan's latest supercomputer fuga qu is
the world's fastest for computing speed
this is the first time that a Japanese
supercomputer has taken the top position
in nine years when the K computer
vogue aku's predecessor took first place
at this time in 2011 jointly developed
by Japan State back in Center for
computational science and Fujitsu who
gaku is the first-ever ARM based system
to become the world's fastest
supercomputer it scored a
high-performance Linpack HPL score of
415 point 5 petaflop
which makes it 2.8 times faster than IBM
summits 148 point 6 petaflop that is now
in second place in the top 500
supercomputers Ann Keynes who gaku is
powered by Fujitsu is 48 core ARM based
a 64 FX system on chip and consists of
nearly seven point three million CPU
cores in single precision operations it
reaches peak performance of over 1,000
petaflop which pushes our vernacular
into the next tier at one exaflop the
chips run at 2.0 gigahertz with a boost
to 2.2 gigahertz and carry 32 gigabytes
of second-generation high bandwidth
memory each this ARM based supercomputer
also secured the number one position in
other rankings that test computers on
different parameters including graph 500
HP l ai and high performance conjugate
gradient this is the first time that a
supercomputer has simultaneously topped
the rankings in the above four
categories according to Fujitsu
currently installed at the RIKEN Center
for computational science in Kobe Japan
few gaku is will also carry out a wide
range of applications that will address
high priority social and scientific
issues while the supercomputer is
expected to start full-time operation in
April next year they are already using
it in the fight against Koba 19 in
recent years countries like the US and
China have dominated the race to develop
powerful machines this time to China
dominated the top 500 list with 226
supercomputers while the u.s. took
second place with 114 systems followed
by Japan with 30 France with 18 and
Germany with 16 systems Chinese
ride-hailing firm DD chicheng says it
plans to operate more than a million
self-driving driving vehicles by 2030
according to Dedes chief operating
officer Manning the robo taki
taxis are to be deployed in places where
ride-hailing drivers are less available
the company last month completed a more
than 500 million dollar fundraising
round for the autonomous driving unit
led by Softbank group's vision fund to
apple who is known to be interested in
the development of autonomous driving
invested 1 billion dollars into DD back
in 2016
last year DD said it would start using
autonomous vehicles to pick up
passengers in Beijing Shanghai and
Shenzhen this year before expanding the
scheme outside China in 2021 automakers
and tech companies in China are
investing heavily in the autonomous
driving industry to compete with the
likes of Tesla alphabet way mo and uber
while some industry insiders say it will
take time for the public to trust
autonomous vehicles fully mang said
DeeDee expects autonomous vehicles to be
in mass production by 2025
competitors are already offering Robo
taxi service but a fleet of 1 million
vehicles would put them all to shame
we'll keep our eye on this and see if
dee dee is able to deliver Facebook has
created a virtual reality headset that's
not much larger than a chunky pair of
sunglasses the futuristic shades use a
specially designed holographic film to
miniaturize the lens conventional VR
displays tend to be bulky as the
refractive lenses inside of them need a
couple of engine inches to focus the
display for its wearer's eyes the result
is a pair of glasses that are most at
most only 9 millimeters thick according
to the researchers and way only 17.8
grams images from the glasses green and
black display are frankly extremely
cyberpunk the glasses can provide an
approximately 90 degree horizontal field
of view according to testing detailed in
a paper published by Facebook research
the design also does away with the
traditional LCD panels used in
conventional VR headset
and uses lasers instead to create an
image that means pixel counting isn't
really an option it's still an early
prototype with plenty of limitations
since light rays from the backlight fan
out significantly before they are
focused by the holographic beam splitter
surface large reason regions of the
display do not contribute to the
displays field of view the researchers
write in the paper the glasses are also
still not capable of producing a
full-color image and exhibit ghosting
around the edges of the field of view
caused by optical surfaces reflecting
light the team already has a plan to
reduce weight even further by switching
to plastic substrates the researchers
expect to bring total weight to just 6.6
grams about the weight of a pair of
large aviator style sunglasses this news
comes at the same time as Google's
acquisition of Canadian smart glasses
startup North who developed lightweight
focal smart glasses designed with a
holographic display that only the user
can see it would appear augmented
reality is still in the sights of these
two big players which could mean some
interesting tech in the coming years big
thanks to Roy W Nash and our community
of viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching a
category-5 TV newsroom don't forget to
Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and if you
appreciate what we do become a patron at
patreon.com slash category 5 from the
category 5 TV newsroom i'm becca
ferguson
before we wrap up this week's episode a
message just came in to me from Eduardo
and Eduardo is using a pine Book Pro
just like me
but is trying to get things working with
an SD card for the operating system
Eduardo writes hi I'd like to know if
you've used the OS in the card for a
long time I'm facing a problem where the
card becomes read-only after 10 days
I've repeated the procedure twice and I
got the same result I know the Waring
problem but I disable the swamp and
Firefox disk cache to reduce the wearing
effect but around 10 days in the card
becomes useless that again coming to us
from Eduardo it's an unfortunate
scenario if that happens but I'm gonna
tell you what I suspect is going on so
first of all in Linux when an operating
system becomes a read-only when a file
system becomes read-only that occurs
when the kernel panics when trying to do
readwrite operations that usually is a
telltale sign of a failing hard drive
well you're not using a hard drive
you're using an SD card a micro SD so in
your case if you are confident that your
micro sd card is good no defects if you
are confident that your SD card is not a
fake because they exist so please if
this is a new card get onto our website
category 5 dot TV or even Linux Tech
show calm and just do a quick search
through our videos for fake SD card and
I've got some tools there that will help
you to be able to determine if your SD
card is fake because then what happens
is you get to a certain point on the
file system where it tries to write to
areas of the card that don't actually
exist because it's fake and then it will
crap out and you're gonna go into that
read-only state
so that's a possibility but if you are
confident that it's a good card and
you're pretty sure and you're absolutely
certain that it's not a fake because
that would definitely provide this
symptom just try a different brand try a
different card try a different speed get
into the community at Pine 64 org find
out what other people are using I've had
great success with some Kingston cards
and I've had some failures with some
Kingston cards I've had great success
with some SanDisk cards and I've had
some failures in turn with some Santas
cards so from card to card there are
various things that will cause this to
happen because that pine Book Pro is
trying to use it like it's a hard drive
and some cards may be problematic
whereas another card will be perfectly
fine so try a different card try a
different brand a different a different
card within their lineup even and see
what what works best for you - straight
out right answer your question eduardo i
have used my micro SD card ever since I
got my pine book Pro and I have had no
such happenstance now I'm not a heavy
power user on my pine book Pro generally
speaking it stays in the studio when I'm
not here and and then I fire it up on a
Wednesday night to do the show but there
are times when I take at home and I do
full production and stuff but and I'm
using it like over the weekends and
things like that but so I think from
card to card you just got to try and see
what what the next card behaves like but
understand that that is what's causing
it is that it's having trouble with that
card so if you've then rewritten the
same card and tried again you're still
experiencing the same symptom because
it's the same card or if it's the same
brand and same product line maybe
there's a problem with that so again
getting into the community and finding
out what other people are suggesting
will do you some good
thank you for the question alright folks
well we've got we've got to wrap up for
the week it's been fantastic having you
here do check out our series of cat 5 TV
slash mikrotik check out the newsroom
the Krypto corner and all of these clips
at Linux tech show calm or of course
everything comes together on our website
category 5 dot TV you can follow
category 5 TV on Twitter and I
personally am even more awesome on
Twitter at Robbie Fergus and because I
follow back so if you want an extra
follower follow me and incidentally I
post things like Doctor Who I say that
because I had a tweet that I posted this
week and BBC retweeted it and it was
just mind bending from there so get over
to twitter.com slash Robbie Fergus and
give me a follow and I'll fall you back
alright have a wonderful week everybody
I will see you again next time
oh don't forget we do have a coffee
break this Sunday at 12 o'clock noon
Eastern Time
so get on to our website category 5 TV
scroll down on the home page you'll see
the coffee break and participate in that
zoom meeting where our community comes
together and just has a coffee and a
chat so we'll see you there take it easy
everybody see
