take it away bill welcome hey guys
category five community coffee break for
Friday March 27th I had to check the
calendar I don't even know run together
now lunch just let's just make sure you
don't choke on it Robbie we don't want
to have you dying at stream that would
break terms of contract I say attend the
services anyone that's why it's hard to
get insurance are you very good day my
goodness I just got a notification on my
screen from the contractor he's gonna be
meeting me 35 minutes 59 yes sir I saw
that I saw that congratulations at least
I haven't seen I haven't seen the
YouTube video yet but I saw the screen
the introductory picture on the YouTube
screen yes congratulations
so let's get into it vp9
and I questioned about the want to
discuss the pine song I did yeah we got
Bo on and I'm so happy that Bo's online
yeah cuz I've been reading up on that on
that excellent looking phone and of
course can't did it anywhere as you
already know Rose right now well even
even spare parts for them I thought I'll
be sneaky I'll see if I can order the
spare parts and assembler myself today
that's an nvme Drive when did you order
it mmm last week okay yeah like last
week was kind of the cutoff for most
like peripheral orders and stuff like
that now it's like everything will just
be like may hold off on ordering those
computer parts for a gaming PC stuff
going out at your place that's cool but
I think what it is Bo is once you're out
you're not going to be able to get your
stock oh no we're still able to get
stuff we've got a big shipment yesterday
yeah fantastic
okay well that's cool does include any
point book pros or opine funny pros are
coming next month I think oh goody nice
we're not seeing the same up here Bo
it's it's been really hard to source it
when it's on a phone so I'm putting to
touch right now UB port oh yeah oh yeah
quit teasing me man quit teasing me stop
it oh that looks nice that's too cool
brilliant so so here's my question for
you Bo is that the same chipset as in
the pine books the phone book in the
possible pro you know the original pine
book yes it's a 64
okay so theoretically I cooked down I
could download one of those districts
that are meant for the plane flown and
it should run on the point book if you
modified the device tree it probably
would hear the device tree is gonna be
the issue but I know if you wanted to
kill but if you know paste for it yeah
the pine a64 the originals yes or the
Esso pine well that's a pine doesn't do
a display though but yeah the pine a 64
or the pine book the original phone book
both both use the same chip I have an
original pine book and and I think
Robbie you do too because you and I both
you know lamented about the keyboard big
time because the the configuration of
the keyboard I had the same problem so
stop it man now please the phone app on
that that's the one thing in all the
research I've done like is that just an
L Linux application that comes with the
distro because there's no distro on the
actual there's no distro on the actual
device right when you when you get it
you have to download one and install it
right and that would include the
application right so this is where I
keep all of my pain pain phone distros
you know that's the organizer my
christian organs
really hard to do things backwards I
don't be few so I have my labeled so I
can put them out but they change so fast
that I have to keep on reimaging them
you can see it now how does it keep
track of things like your contacts that
sort of stuff does it connect to it like
a card
observer or something or have us there
is there anything like that here's the
the recent and missed calls area okay
yeah so those are yeah okay I guess you
have when you've shown the touch it
seems like it's not responsive is that
just because you're doing it backwards
or are they still having some trouble
because I'm not because I don't know if
I'm supposed to poke it or push it
anyway yeah right here a new booted
touch if I if I poke it in the right
spot there goes okay but then at the
bottom I have to drag it okay to get
used to the interface each each app or
each each app and each this throws a
little different also if you do this
slow drag from this side you get into
the app switcher oh okay currently
running yeah that's like that I'm I'm
gonna try that I'm gonna see if I can't
download that distro and then or any
number of distros and stick them on my
phone book my original Pineville can see
you see how it works
it displays the issue because I did look
it up this is a 1440 by 800 I think I
know I was looking at it - I think it's
1290 by something yeah 42 49 6 7 2013 I
spam anyway to make yeah so it's better
than the 840 I said yes last time I know
can I ask you guys something
sure all in favour renaming the coffee
break pine phone
[Laughter]
well there we go need to rename because
it's synonymous well you know I've got
I've got other stuff to show you
because I want to show you some really
high tech stuff you know I don't know
whether you've seen this before it's
what you showed me yesterday that's part
of what I showed you yesterday but this
one's got batteries charged up oh wow
is that that's TRS model Edie if I'm not
mistaken that is a trs-80 model 100 yes
so trs-80 that's yes trs-80 model 100
that is like state-of-the-art in 1983
and 1984 actually really one of those
things one of these days just use it as
like a dedicated text editing machine
just a reticule selfie that's what this
is perfect for because of the full
treble keyboard right there and I don't
know if you can see the screens running
on it can you actually see the screen no
no no and let me get that let me let me
put this all I got is that were able to
guarantee yes it is camera around when
do my best not to do my best not to show
my really messy desktop yes in middle
school I got to use a lot of those
because I was on the school newspaper oh
yeah yeah I was going out to the store
no there you go take everything I can't
tell what mine looks like but let me see
if I can see that up there it is oh yeah
much better and so you can just
literally select what you want
if you jump into tips let me try this
again because I'm trying to do this
through the screen I think I've done a
test file here and I think it's got some
so there's I can't spell obviously but
as you can see that's you can see that's
40 characters right I mean that is eight
lines by 40 characters but there's
there's other you know you can do better
than eight lines by 40 characters by
doing this jump into jail tomorrow so
you you know what kind of operating
system is yes oh there's no operating
system to speak of on this this has 64 K
of memory this is not CPM I will tell
you there is a project there's a there's
a plug-in you can get for this literally
a card you can plug into the option run
slot that it's gonna let you run CP in
on this thing but now you can see that
with the ultimate ROM option ROM in
there
you now have 60 characters across the
string will be fun to have an operating
system altered running on the thing and
putting a web server on it just to see
if it's worked this thing barely running
to make it not even three mega what
maybe three mega Hertz it's a it's got a
8080 processor in it not as a lady or as
Ilya as a game if you call it as II know
it's not as the 80 or a zero it is an
eighty eighty or an 80 85 or more
specifically eight zero c85 because that
is the CMOS or low
a low current version of the of the CPU
but full treble keyboard you got to
watch that num lock key because that
will enable the the numeric keys on
there and that locks down so and beeping
where's the insert key possible
quotation mark wasn't on the number 2
kilo supposed to be here's the best of
quote actually it actually matches
pretty close to the to the to a regular
keyboard I mean it looks nice
it's a gorgeous keyboard to type on I've
had this probably literally 30 years or
something and it's it and I think and it
still runs just fine
I love it so yeah so yeah Christian
what's the battery life of that thing
this round on let me show you it boys
yes for double ice lieutenant it will
run for like a month on for double
double A's oh nice
yep yep jump try and give that out of a
regular laptop
yeah real hard to say the company name
on here are we not allowed to say the
company name right here I don't I don't
remember the Covenant that's why I don't
say it if you know it's don't say so
that's fine
okay system76 oh yes oh yeah that makes
sense
and you gotta figure if if it has what
was it 21 hours mm-hmm so that like that
must be like if you were using it
non-stop for 21 hours but who does that
well that was yeah I don't know how they
managed to test that but that was
apparently while running or something
like it with my bluetooth headphones
like it says that it has 12 hours
battery life but that that will last for
a month before I have to put it on the
charger yeah that's true so before the
pine foam came out do you guys don't see
what I was working on in the same vein
indeed yes not the pocket this is a
Odroid view 5 and touchscreen and this
is an ode right C 0 with a 3000 milliamp
hour battery I wired up this USB hub to
it so that I could connect let's see a
4G USB dongle to it that's awesome
and this one running Android just
because the C 0 runs Android really
slick and but you could run Linux on it
mm-hmm yeah I'm figuring maybe next year
I might get a pine phone though they're
still viable if you want to remember
well no must talks
15 years ago or something and he was
talking about how he started there will
be a free software movement and his and
he said in doc II wrote in one of the
you had postings that he was not sure
that he would be successful time machine
and go back and show me one of the pine
phones you did that he would probably be
disappointed because the pine phone no
is in the Oh quick tell okay I forgot
that the graphics driver we have then
the kernel now is actually binary blob
free anymore understand
yeah they replace that like someone
reverse-engineered the malli driver and
came up with this think of the lima
driver and it got excited the kernel so
that's that's cool yeah so this is not a
qualcomm modem name right known i call
come it's so cute qu e SI te l quick
telco because there was there was at
least one modem and i can't remember who
it was Qualcomm or Broadcom that had
some sort of a security vulnerability do
we know if this one okay Rob Brax Minh
and he has a channel called Rob bratzman
tech I believe he's a internet privacy
and security guy and he does an in-depth
review of the pine file and also the
pine phone versus the Libre five which
is another Linux poem that's coming out
and yeah I mean he has he has some
pretty good information he's not hundred
percent perfect all the time but
but his company called purism is pretty
proud of it phones I got to tell you
yeah it's it's a thicker heavier phone
that's more metallic so it has more of a
premium feel to it but it's also got
premium price tag definitely it's
definitely because of the software work
that they're doing and is the kind of
the marketing surrounding it isn't all
that great they probably should be more
upfront about how alpha quality the
software is the point where they
released like you know the first few
batches of the Libra 5 didn't have the
ability to make calls out or to receive
and it was still at a freaking price tag
and they said oh it's it's ready now
we're gonna give ship these out to
people or whatever and it's like yeah I
think probably I mean it makes sense
that they do want to test the software
and have the community develop it with
them but at the same time it's I mean
they they could be a little bit more
software is yeah I think it's a fine
line between wanting to not shoot
themselves in the foot and be honest at
the same time so yeah but the thing is
when you when you charge a premium price
like that there's an expectation that it
should work still you can't charge seven
hundred plus dollars and say oh by the
way it doesn't work yet I mean I'm sorry
Microsoft does it all the time which is
why I don't run Windows at the house so
the whole mean for me running Linux on a
phone it blows my mind because you can
you can just no more of this
you have to you know send all your
statistics to Google or Microsoft
weathers and whoever's
your operating system so for Apple or
whatever sorry I said you know what what
I thought about doing with the phone
yesterday after we talked the other day
you can actually load my sequel or some
database on this I would I would
absolutely have a go at I mean I have a
seed application that uses gtk now you
know looking at the Forbes and stuff
they probably you run KDE
so I don't know for gtk application
would work very well in that environment
but it it it uses a my skew it uses SQL
Lite in the background just embedded
their hosts not not MySQL right but it I
absolutely expect that it would work I
mean it's a tiny little screen know so I
don't know how how you know how good the
UI would look on such a tiny screen but
it will certainly be interesting to try
and I would certainly have a go at it
for sure
I think it's something that we haven't
really talked about too is that the the
pine phone introduces a new form factor
for certain types of appliances like
think about what I could do with MEMS if
you had an M server and then I created a
distro that was for the pine phone that
would actually there you know if there
was like a distro for the pine phone
with your name server and have all your
stats on your screen or you know who
knows what else you could do but make
appliances that have a little a little
six inch screen on it that's pretty cool
but it's in your phone you could even do
this with the pint I don't have a they
have a water now that they're selling
well but assisted you can't get the
parts for but it it is the same sort of
infrastructure yes
it's running Linux and you can deal with
this thing just like you do the plain
phone it's it's just running Linux what
that is it's not calling home all the
time that's the current that I love
about it map for that the pain time
doesn't run Linux per se it it the
developments happening pretty much I
mean it can happen in any language
really but but they're doing it mostly
in rust right now rough and from what I
can tell it doesn't actually run a full
colonel it runs a minimal very very
beast colonel I misunderstood I'm sorry
I thought it I thought it ran Linux
under the covers yeah the more I read
about it I think it's not but if you
could develop like if they if they can
set it up so this is why you need your
tea the fine time development kit is
available for purchase right now on the
pine story so if you want the fine time
development kit you can buy it right now
complete watch I thought I was trying to
get it I couldn't get out I just thought
oh oh maybe it maybe that's change
reason you know I think I should
absolutely check that out I'd love like
to create an app for that your system
admins that would be like a notification
app just just imagine looking at your
watch and being able to tell the status
and all your surveys and Robin it has a
heart rate sensor in the pine time watch
I said now I don't know if it is if it's
a slick as the as a smart badge but it
certainly has it it took me has a heart
rate sensor so here you go Robbie yet
you can have MEMS monitor your
your health would that be neat there you
go
add a sensor for it crushed over the
data would be going fine time kiddos
available you get to send it that's the
beauty of it it it doesn't phone home
because and MEMS MEMS is an operating
system that you install on like a
Raspberry Pi so it's self hosted in
other words yeah the pine 64 site says
the pine time developer kit is available
oh good I mean just for curiosity's sake
more than anything else it would be I
one of the things about about this
Robbie
is that you have to install an
application called H band on on your
Android phone right right right
that thing phone's heart rate sharing my
heart rate with the Chinese government
absolutely Oh lots of things phone home
and some things phone other places I
read this morning that iOS zoom app
phones Facebook whether or not you have
an account no ok I'm gonna delete it
over here I never to make date you
speaking of Facebook you guys are
familiar that Firefox put out a
container for Facebook it's an extension
for Facebook or sorry an extension for
Firefox that that basically sterilizes
Facebook in the browser so that they
can't track where you're going online
and on the subject of beings like spied
on by the Chinese government have any of
you seen that - tech tips video where he
like got that Chinese television and in
order to use it yeah yeah well it was
like it required him to share all the
information that the television collects
with the People's Republic of China TV
unless he agreed to install Linux on the
TV I think we're just gonna stupid yeah
that's what I know you wrote you
into it for the last few weeks all cell
phone users are required to install a
specific app it has three colors to
indicate whether or not you are sick or
not and you are not allowed to cancel
your cell phone service for the past
three months in despite of that in the
last three months the Chinese cell phone
projects have closed medium cell phone
accounts so there's a talking about what
is going on in despite they are not
allowed to cancel
I just appreciate how SoBou is able to
always end our coffee break on such a
high note we have so with that in mind
thank you everybody for being here and I
am posting updates throughout the
weekend on Kickstarter can't 5.2 eat /
kick keep in mind tomorrow is our move
[Music]
so we're working on we're working on the
schedule because we have to keep our
social distancing rules and they're not
going to Center them phrase some
reviewed to move here we are spacing it
out and we've got it set up so that
there's no more than five people that
are going to be on site at a time so
we're doing our decibel yeah so we're
doing our part to try to protect others
and and protect ourselves and do what we
can so but the move will happen we've
got a call from the truck company
they've got truck for me and they're
waiting for me tomorrow morning at 8
o'clock and our alarm installer is going
to be at the new studio at 7:00 to start
wiring in the alarm system so I think
everything's gonna go real well done
thanks guys we'll have a wonderful
afternoon I'll be in touch over the
weekend and of course you'll be in
discord as well so I'm off to see the
contractor yep all right good luck
