welcome to the coffee break or the 19th
of May 20 20 nice to see you guys I see
Pierre and Sol do and bp9 smell crap
today
quick housekeeping today is the last day
li coffee break
until monday the 20 May
just keep in mind there is not me there
will not Peter can I get you to mute
your mic I'm gonna mute that okay I'm
going to need to give a little more
charge of the the mics and stuff here I
think so yeah there's gonna be some
changes coming down the line I think you
know what coffee breaks this is
something that I wanted that we started
as a community to be able to kind of see
us through the pandemic and and now I
don't know where things are at I think
things are starting to open up things
are starting slowly to get a little more
back to normal I know soul who's been
going out and and some of you guys have
been going about your day a little bit
more normally not quite there yet but
we're getting there
but I'm back at the studio and and back
to doing shows every week so things are
starting to starting to get a little bit
more normal
so but that said I think coffee break
has been a really good thing for our
community I think it's been a lot of fun
and a great way for us to get to know
one another on a more personal level and
we've learned a lot of really cool tech
stuff too and I'm learning a lot from
you guys which is cool and getting ideas
from you guys about upcoming shows and
things like that
so so that said I'd like to keep it
going I just have to figure out how we
can do that I know the daily thing now
that I'm back at at at the studio doing
the show every week it's too much I just
can't do it every single day and I have
not posted a coffee break since last
week because like I'm and I I'm behind
on publishing Joe when last Wednesday
show still not up because I typically
use my lunch breaks too
I wish I had time or a coffee break
every day I don't
so I typically use that time to get the
things done that I need to get done in
order to produce the show in the time
that I have so are you in I'm this is my
office yeah my lunch room is in use
right now understandable Robbie
perfectly understandable inter and yeah
I speak for myself I have no problem
with that you've got to do what you got
to do right yeah yeah I think it's been
this is number what 50 or 55 something
like that I I know it'll be more obvious
after its published because the number
will be there but I think it's somewhere
around there anyway so like this 50-plus
days of doing a coffee break which has
been great for us I think community and
and it's nice to chat about something
other than what we're hearing on the
news these days we stick it out we all
have different accents no no we all talk
funny yeah especially Robbie so I'll be
here I'll figure out kind of a new
schedule and that's why I say Monday the
25th we'll have another coffee break so
I feel like I should be able to do one a
week we'll see but but I'll know a
little bit better on Monday how I'm
going to structure things and how we're
going to change it because now maybe
maybe this becomes a little more
structured and more of a show like yeah
it's kind of evolved into that so and I
think it's a really cool opportunity I
know all of you guys have had chances
and others who have been a part of the
coffee break do to share some of the
cool tech that you're working with and
we're learning all kinds of stuff from
vp9 and Sol boo you've shown us some
some of the stuff that you're working on
and even Peter with his programming and
everything else and and he knows a lot
about like the circuit circuitry and
power supplies and so I'm learning as
well and and I think you know if we all
take take turns kind of presenting even
and and make that yeah I don't know
we'll see how things as well
I think in the next year he's selling
his blockbuster game on there I want to
say I want to say that the shorts yes
yeah so so just keep in mind there won't
be a copy break tomorrow and so we'll
see you again on Monday after today's
coffee break now all that said how's
everybody doing I watched a video today
now we're at that point we're at that
point now where he's saying I saw a
video earlier today so we're catching up
in the time this remote space time note
this reminds me of a video not that this
reminds me of a video but I saw just now
on an interview by a brain turning and
interviewed Ken Thompson in January of
last year about the history of Unix that
was the idea
and then he mentioned how he unix came
about and how the c programming language
they came about and i didn't notice but
the c programming language the name is
kind of a joke there was an earlier
programming language called the four
letters program language early in the
around 70s or something and it was a
little complicated so somewhat
simplified the language and could it be
just the first letter of the longer name
and then when the
and then they improved that a little bit
I think it was also because there be
programming language didn't work well on
the PD in eleven and so he improved the
B language and since he had changed it
he landed C thing to remember about C is
that it only consists of Oh less than
thirty three zero runtime functions that
are built into the runtime itself
everything else is all libraries that's
that that's the thing to remember the
same is true by the way Peter the same
is true of Dell most of what you when
most of what you see in Pascal it only
consists of I don't know audio maybe not
even that many actual built-in functions
all the rest of it is libraries just
like would say that was by accident it
was supposed to be a print solution or
something wasn't it yeah and the Bell
Labs the Bell Labs they were quite
insistent they did not need the few guys
and here Brian mentioned that he had a
single-digit
a user ID on the system so yeah
the example of the password that came in
the between in the late 70s early
eighties yeah that was a whole different
era back then he didn't worry yeah you
know hacking and passwords and all that
kind of stuff you know the word and it
was a whole new factor authentication I
think it's witchcraft I know I know
that's nutty and and these days you know
sometimes maybe paying homage to those
early days of computing but sometimes
somebody will bring out a product and
call it something silly that's like a
single character or something like that
I'm googling it good luck he said in a
few of his talks that every it talks
about how he developed Emacs and and and
then there were some clones of Emacs
want to improve and have their own and
he said that naming a program is half
the front because they are and often and
giving it sometimes naughty and funny
names because imagining they use a
laughing at the name was half the fun of
the UNIX command grip came from a
command that you're doing by when you do
a search I forget the exact syntax it's
probably three slash the RA slash P or
something like that that's where the
word grip came from that's how everybody
knows what that's that that's why a
search function is called grip because
it literally came from yeah and that
command and that command
that came about also by accident because
Ken Thompson wanted there he needed
something to do searches and by that
time he had developed a few programs but
he stopped putting them in the trash bin
folder cause he didn't want to and when
you're doing things from the other users
and then a few are because only after he
had use that program for four
all in one then the chief of the Bell
Labs came and said that it would be nice
do you have something that you could do
some searches in files and so on they
said that he was going to sleep on it
and the sleeping was he needed a day to
fix a few bugs that he knew about the
system and the next day everything was
ready so it was awful talk I'm more
practical with my naming conventions
like MEMS I think MEMS is a pretty neat
name but it it's an acronym yeah Nagios
enterprise monitoring server may have
sense right but you got to come up with
something fun and fresh and new not been
done before everybody asked me like
where did category 5 come from haven't
had that question in Ohio bp9 is gone we
lost them
yeah probably someone called him on his
phone line he mentioned a few weeks ago
that and Iowa no he's only dsl but each
time it dies down so wonder if we need
the pot splitter Oh DSL those were the
days well yeah I until I moved here last
year and I had a fiber connection in the
wall that I use or I refused to use it
because it didn't have the services that
I needed so thank you sir you guys want
to know a little secret about me notice
the jelly beans are going down oh oh I
figured it out don't screw this this was
noticing that was in the frame you
remember that tweet I never have any
change on me so I couldn't get any jelly
bean not fair
slamming hey what's that about Amazon
detriment I predict we shall liquid
who's ever to kid yourself ago probably
but I am take we say to do well I pulled
it from Amazon and yelled passage about
we Atlantic licorice which is in England
with you the world Malcolm in England
and they pulled a very safely that will
bound books of it and they lost three
problems in a key chain they took me
every month so I was quite pleased with
that you're subscribed to receive
licorice yeah yeah nice much those
Amazon subscription those things are
great like I say 15 percent on
everything that I normally buy
especially during this this crazy time
when you can't go to a store it's been
really helpful to have those
subscriptions coming in things like like
even stuff like multivitamins and just
stuff that I normally would have to go
to the store to get remained cleaning it
up with elbows up made for them June
because we couldn't get it locally oh
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah there's
definitely that and certainly here like
there's been stuff that's been sold out
obviously in the stores so being able to
just subscribe to it cereal is a good
example there was a time when at the
beginning of the pandemic where the
cereal aisle was completely cleared out
so I got on Amazon and I subscribed to
receive special K automatically every
two weeks and it's and it's great it's
usually out of stock but because you're
subscribed to it you get kind of parsnip
so so I learned I learned something new
Robby's with that my um my restore
procedure
after a catastrophic failure yeah sorry
old-style no well I hope you didn't have
to learn the hard way
did you simulate your end or procedure
this wants a single light yeah
because what I took it and I by the way
I'm sorry to change the subject
but I thought we weren't talking about
the pandemic anyway so I I was talking
about the ability to get that's okay we
can get back to that if you want but
what I did I failed
yeah okay so I think I mentioned that I
had a spear to terabyte drive that I had
a an old version of I've been to
installed long yeah yeah so I looked at
the one terabyte hard drive that Windows
10 was already installed on and I fired
it up just to see what would happen and
it it started it just sent me into
sufficient catatonic state that at a
sudden I'm not ever gonna do that again
and I thought about dual booting on that
on that hard drive I thought you know
what
I have a spare two terabyte drive I'm
just gonna use that I'm not gonna mess
with your boot or in the electric so I
ended up taking that two terabyte drive
and installing exurban to 2004 on it
works great okay no worries at all but
then I went hunting for my documentation
that I thought I had printed a out
before has to do a being metal restore
and it took me a while to actually find
it that turns out it stated 2013 so
seven years ago my whole backup
procedure has changed quite a bit since
then so it's been a while though and
it's the Year how to you that you have
written to your future self it's no
longer valid there's a correct current
or I don't think it was actually ever
valid cuz I never did put enough day
timing to say how to actually do it so
you're gonna treat this as a disaster I
mean I did it cranked up the old hard
drive again and it's working fine I've
got the
16-point Oh for running just fine and
I've got 2004 running just fine as well
I just don't don't have any data
restored for an exercise what I want to
do make sure my backups make sure I can
restore from our backups because it's
one thing to just take it back up you
know be you know if th fat dumb and
happy for you know every week taking
your backups in a way you go over them
and you forget about you know exactly
that one of the critical things you have
to do is prove that the that you can
restore from the backup or otherwise
it's otherwise it's literally useless so
you are banging down the sides yeah yeah
that's my time I started it last night
and I'm gonna finish it probably tonight
I'll let it run overnight see what
happens yeah that's smart and some
people might say well what what kind of
gluttons for punishment would put
themselves through a simulated recovery
well you never want to be in that
situation where you have to recover
because something is crass productive
you know ever had a strop ik failure and
then you find on things missing where
you can't go even though my
documentation Illinois but the backups I
feel like the backup is fine I will find
a dead out tonight when I actually do
the house door I am confident that it's
okay and even if the even if then
there's I mean last night before I
before I quit and just went to bed I
think what about what if the nez was
offline what what's what's the
worst-case scenario well I had my 10
terabyte drive to restore from and I
very carefully copied just the backup
files without zipping them or anything
like that directly to the dry so they
should be just as usable from the drive
as they are from from Burnett's so
that's my plan I'm gonna work that Ed
functions and have them in play cuz you
have to do it you have to do it yet
because otherwise who anyways you can't
trust your backups there's things that I
tell that I tell my customers and that
mm-hmm
first thing is exactly what the nail
that year hit and right now is you want
to know that your backup is it has
integrity it has the files that you're
expecting to be there and you're able to
recover but in business there's a second
factor to that tests and that's how long
is it going to take you to recover
because in a business if you get hit by
ransomware yeah or you have your server
crash or you have a fire or something
like that how long are you going to be
down for we'll determine how many staff
are you going to have to let go how are
you going to be going bankrupt through
the situation because a lot of small
companies that get hit by ransomware
they just can't afford to pay the ransom
and you're not going to do that anyway
and then they find out they don't have a
backup and you know they get their files
back is going to cost next number a
millions of dollars and they've done
lawsuit pending and so find out how long
it's going to take that's important the
biggest thing for me is that it it I
just wanted to say so be the biggest
thing for me is that the most important
thing to remember is no matter where
your backup is stored whether it be on
tape whether it be on a 10 or a 12
terabyte hard drive or if it's on an
Ayres make sure it's in a form that you
can get to it don't because I found out
I found out for instance on my Synology
box that an office document is a blob in
a database somewhere that is useless to
me it I'm not going to use their
proprietary backup and restore solutions
to get that document back and they you
know in a way that I don't care how it's
stored that I can still get to it yeah
five years ago I think it was there was
a company in a row but it because
company had something happened to their
data storage
I think you saw one like them and they
managed to wipe all of their computers
this is the mail service that email
service provider I don't remember but
all of their sisters was white click
compare em that RF yeah and they didn't
have any backup and they and they closed
the shop do not take a backup of your
critical data ep9 if he's if he's
talking about the same company that I'm
thinking of this is an email service
provider their backups were hard
connected to the same network and yeah
mounted and so when they did an RM that
survived corrupted they were corrupted
as well they were removed as well yeah
so the thing board and and exactly the
same scenario for ransomware ransomware
spiders through your network and find
your bad guys to do right so you've got
to have them disconnected get them on
tonight what do you make of that got
that back up onto a job would you don't
connect you do anything as well exactly
I mean I that's what I do with the
cinnamons I've got the backed up to the
nares normally and then periodically
I'll take a hard drive and I'll back
everything on the nares up to the hard
drive that's and you've seen my setup at
the studio where I actually pull a drive
and replace it and it rebuilds and takes
three days to do so but now I have it in
my hand
you know Luke's encrypted format so you
know if somebody ever stole that they
wouldn't be able to read the data do I
remember that the day I left windows
behind it was January 28 2008 and I know
the deep in my heart
I was running a Windows 2000 because I
didn't I rejected the activation which
came in XP and all the later versions
just the supply has no idea who I am and
that
the operating system if I paid for it or
got otherwise legally they had so I used
to be nas mm and and finally my heart we
have died and then but I had back up so
I could I have done this before if I had
the backups on to see DRS and on a
separate Drive in in the same system i
imaged the C Drive and when I needed to
recover did that the two times and the
entire record took 15 minutes and
everything was the world it could back
everything up and this day the backups I
knew that have done image that I could I
could install and their windows will
take two hours and then and then I
needed to install drive image was the
name of it I think I had and then and
then I am but or I could I know
and after you install manually
installing everything afterwards I know
that was a four days job installing is
not the biggest job the biggest job is
setting everything up yeah getting it
back the way you want it on Windows 2000
all the programs so this it took me it
took me 90 minutes from building the
machine to installing a been excellent
to 2004
and configuring it considering recession
the way our life is like to bet on
battle it like the way I do it at window
did I got it on a server and I've got
all the disks would you install on just
as soil and the script though and
they've every collapses object one was
web believe it and they put you back on
delivery change through the server
assuming respirable assuming the service
available printer printer that's right
yeah yeah yeah yeah okay dye job today
doesn't legs as long as you do it family
discovered you have doing it that way
yeah the other one I was like to Robbie
came through sisters do you have ridges
doctor resistors around my use their
identity of what they support me images
today I'm done put them in Iraq without
shame and are numbered them and
mountable
so I said oh I'm you can easy get the
value that losing them dams overs and
things yeah there might be a chip for
you anyway called ago yes we lived every
day cubes a final thought before we wrap
up I got to cut you off Peter because I
gotta go I'm putting soul dues Windows
10 recovery against vp9 Xubuntu recovery
vp9 Linux wins once again for the win oh
right yeah
Windows 2000 vs. a modern Linux
alright guys I gotta go for them have a
one have a goal rest of the week and I
will see you Monday man thanks for the
other day
take care guys bye bye bye
