everybody hi Peter
it is look at that april 1st 2020 it's
no longer much wonderful
am I on the air with a robo yet you
could or may over yet Peter I'm gonna
have real difficulty understanding you
today because I'm sitting in my office
with my phone on my desk so they love a
yeah they do about me and dr. a
one-liner says I represent after the
very job developer mouth and she don't
get very good internet okay here the
only thing I heard was very good
internet I I can't hear a thing
my my phone is on my desk and I don't
have I don't have a headset and I don't
have speakers today I mean are you right
you can do my best
daddy oh dear Lord that would up a bit
more I'm not sure I could like you get
bad in today and your battery to that
was really really bad and she said I'll
go son go blue box of it already a name
she said by the way a doctor's purchase
I remembered I used a blue box ID and I
know you know they made a website how
they lose a blue box same because I
usually blue box into that and please
Bob talk to her the way translations
guys good morning guys you guys with
your headsets a vp9
bad does it go there daddy you don't
need to apologize man I regret that I
don't have a better set up right now
it'll be more really makes it really
really hard with your voice box so I got
that
I beg that when am i notice when the
board in out up the road and they don't
have very good in today like a dial-up
almost like and she bought a big old
blue box which she would she added or if
you did she had dr. Lou to new one farad
say I said I both know you'd be using
the blue box to have a direct connection
what is bleeding ants in a bog that
thank you about radio signal from
troubled and graduate wife elected to
the Utah oh it's so is she pulling that
from you or where's she getting in front
from that up the valuable I a better so
I of the loved the LaPenta thought and
Bobo piling drive look up an old map
this ball bearings right so tell me if
I've got this right so she has really
poor internet yeah and she's got this
device that gives her Wi-Fi access which
is giving her better internet to some
connection up the road called blue broke
called blue box never government but it
sounds similar sounds similar to the
kind of makeshift internet that we had
to use over at studio D but maybe I did
dr. Peretz dinette a boarding I thought
that about ever using your blue box
she had doctors there in staying at the
woman who played dr. rosemary saying
that our board it out and I said that
those who were using your Blue Book's
internet take a double eat a boiled egg
Robbie I think that's a reference to the
current doctor in Doctor Who and that
actors parents were involved in this
story I think that's what it is
am I wrong Peter the third state that
they noted aboard enough and I said
Debbie used in a blue box internet broke
you know
I gotcha
so we got it and so TARDIS references
and everything
I'm so sorry Peter I wish it was easier
for us to for me especially to
understand you today but and for those
of you who are watching if you're not
sure what Peter saying I don't think
that the Google automatic captions are
going to be much used to us either Peter
but we'll certainly do our best not run
through throat cancer so he's got a
device that helps them to be if I click
anywhere I will delay the bloody thing
you don't explain anyway you know I'm
just like sick anyways I wrote very
badly just like so we'll read the door
and on the air that it on the screen
anyway it's a very well I couldn't do it
quick enough yeah I understand about the
size of dolls with the air but some
stops do she does or no she is got
dyslexia as well as you know I
understand cuz I was very bad yeah very
upgrade very bad yeah well we're doing
our best everyone we're it's April first
guys we made it through can I can I say
the month from hell that was Myrtle sure
yeah we made it we're here we survived
mmm-hmm a say to those of you who have
supported the show through the
Kickstarter patreon or donations in any
way and just participating I really
really appreciate you guys I'm supposed
to point out that it's April 1st today
on there's no way that you made it I
personally cancelled April Fool's yeah
yeah but you know what it's sunny skies
here for the first time in at least a
week so one of the problems that I have
is that studio D has a steel roof and
it's been pouring rain for the past week
and so I haven't been able to get up on
the roof too
the ubiquity down so our antennas still
on the roof I've got a I've got to go
get that but today looks like a
beautiful day so I'm hoping that I can
stop by Iran
Robbie hello Robbie's swabue local
school had info that they are sent out
to all students saying that because of
the current corona situation there is
going to be schools over our schools up
here have been completely canceled I
don't even think I mean I don't know but
the kids are all home anyways article
read about most a lot of this school
fell for this so Robbie
I have been studying up some more upon
time yes night more than three hours of
sleep not that bad this time all the
documentation are downloaded off the YUM
of the page are very very low level
documentation it's the kind of dots that
a that a system builder would need
physical dimensions of each component
where each pin lies where you'd have to
place them in the circuit board the
electrical characteristics of each of
those pins
none of that any good to me what I need
is the is to understand how to drive
those devices I'm not a
sibling a watch I'm writing a program to
use the the parts that have been
assembled together and if you even look
at all there they have a forum if you
have you been looking at mine 64 score
I'm like is it bad I haven't looked at
the forum yet so far at the moment all
I've done is looked at the at the the
documentation page the wiki as well as
all the various libraries that have been
that have implemented applications that
run on the pine time the it needs a
what's called a boot loader you get that
when you with the Arduino you use AVR
dude AV the UDP that is the bootloader
that that you have to run in order to
load a program into the Arduino and for
the point time it's a slightly different
I believe it's OCR something I've
forgotten the name of it but you don't
just load so we talked about a couple of
days ago you talked about PHP as your
main language right yeah I'd say that's
probably my strongest language what
languages do you see the thing about PHP
is it's not compiled it's a scripting
language it's interpreted directly by
the browser or run the PHP plug-in on
the browser to to Bologna the PHP
environment correct in order to display
data on your page now you can insert
things like SQL queries or whatever it
is you have to do and then make it
display stuff based on that but that's
all happening interactively scripted
right the difference is that the sort of
programming that under enrich C or C
sharp or rust or whatever need whatever
they're using is that the source code
gets compiled into a binary executable
that gets dumped on to the watch yeah
and the
so that's the difference I can take all
the time I need to do the compile I
don't care how long the compile takes
what I want is to make sure that once
it's on the watch that it runs
efficiently or that it runs at all maybe
change your ordering there to your
priorities make sure it runs all and
then make sure it runs the fish right
that's always how I work you know always
make it work first and then if I have
any performance issues with the program
at that point then go do something about
about it then about those performance
issues that's always the way I approach
it in any case so yeah I've been
studying up on those figuring out how to
draw a watch face in with with vectors
instead of as a as a graphical PNG I
think I understand now why they use that
graphical PNG because most of the stuff
what's it what did you find about that
because that was a curiosity for sure
it's easy to do as I say though what you
do is you have to take that PNG once
you've decided how you want the watch
face to look you take that PNG and you
can you convert that and they've got
tools to help you do that they convert
that into a header file that basically
just declares an array of a whole bunch
of numbers whole bunch of hex values
those hex values describe the RGB values
of each pixel in that in that in that
picture and so a 320 by 320 or a 240 by
240 I'm still not sure what the actual
resolution of the pone time is and I
won't know that till actually get the
device some say 240 by 240 some say 320
by 320 but once you've converted that
image into that array of values you can
just split that up on the screen and I
think the reason that a
programmers do it that way so that when
you draw the hands that change every
second on the watch face especially when
you clear the you know when you clear
the second hand from one location and
draw it on the next location I think
with a PNG that you won't destroy any of
the pixels behind it but with victor
mode when you program it as a vector
where is where you say from the center
of the circle the watch face to the
number one digit or whatever when you
draw that then clear it and then draw
the next one what you cleared will
you'll end up with a whole bunch of
unset pixels and so you will have
destroyed anything or messed up anything
that was drawn underneath this so I
guess that would affect if you had like
say like a wallpaper under watch face
well I think again this is pure
conjecture I think that with the PNG or
with a wallpaper that does not happen so
you don't have to worry about resetting
those pixels back to the way they were
before you destroyed them by drawing a
line over them with everything when are
you gonna have yours is no idea no idea
yet so judge that they've Church the
card I'm just waiting for it to waiting
for it to arrive whenever it arrives yes
I mean I think it's coming from China I
don't know I don't know if there's any
any phone watches here locally when you
order from point sixty four I think it
comes from there so
and the other both just to see what
happens
sure I'm gonna try both approaches but
there's there are already plenty of
implementations that do this with a PNG
behind and then drawing the and then
drawing the each watch each of the of
the watch so I'll just be I'll just be
loading up into the into the point I'm
and already written implementation for
that I just need to understand how it
works I still like the idea of a vector
implementation because I don't want a
picture behind my behind my watch face
what I would rather have is a much
cleaner watch face that is really just
each of the tick marks for each minute
and then each of the arms just move as
they need to once a second that's I
think Robbie when we talk two or three
days ago you were thinking probably an
analog movement where it would look
continuous but I don't believe it would
be nice but I don't think it would be
smart because it would use up a lot of
CPU just to keep updating that and
whereas if you if you trigger it every
second it can run off an interrupt that
runs every second and when it triggers
off an interrupt
then all you then you only use CPU time
when it when it has to update for that
second one frame per second precisely
exactly right yep yep so that's what I'm
looking at kinda like season 1 of
category 5 but my point we've got a
start somewhere and I'm pretty sure I'm
gonna have to rely on libraries to do
this I only want to use libraries where
I have the source code some there's a
display driver that Adafruit publishes I
don't know if you've heard of Adafruit
they're even
you know of course yes and so when I
bought lots of stuff from them I put a
lot of Aquino's and kids and all kinds
of stuff from them so I don't mind using
their open-source libraries and any of
this if they don't if their library
works then it's just a matter of
compiling it right into my own
application that just becomes the same
as binary blog that would be the ideal
thing I remember I think they showed it
on a video some years ago but it was one
of the first smartwatches that came
around and someone managed to put a
virtualized in an environment on it and
they just to see what happens they
installed Windows 95 on it's
anatomically fast on what resolution
display I bet it was the stock would
take up the entire screen yeah he
managed to dismiss it down but yeah he
only did it just to see see what
happened anything if he could do it the
most useless implementation of putting
stuff on things was someone installed a
modern the latest Slackware there's real
free ATC's computer it was 15y back when
back when Slackware and all was around
there was a very small Linux
distribution that booted off a 3.5 inch
floppy disk it the initials were DSL you
remember that yeah we've said
hell on the show so far so now I can
dance more Linux then that's okay but
that booted up fairly quickly I mean it
was slow because the floppy disks were
very slow yeah it just took time to seek
two tracks on on the floppy but hey hey
it worked
you couldn't do much with it but if you
desperately needed to if you hosed up
your hard drive and you needed to get to
the hard drive you'd fire up this DSL
distro melt the hard drive is another
that's a lock onto another mount point
do whatever surgery you needed to do
then you could just reboot the thing off
the hard drive again or would be used to
think that it's DSL because it was
primarily used for a DSL connections
until I actually see the homepage I'm
gonna be using to yourself a dial-up I
believe that was what we did I use damn
smart Linux for dialing yes I think so
yeah I what would happen was that this
was at my ex-father-in-law place and so
what we did is we set up a PC that just
booted off the floppy and whenever
somebody needed anyone on the network
needed to get on the internet it would
on demand set up the PPP connection by
dialing up the internet service provider
setting up the PPP connection getting at
IP address and then yep there we go and
we already know how to be net so well it
just works I thought it was the most
amazing thing in the whole wide world a
friend of mine the same had a big array
that fell down I introduced him to a
Linux by I sent him a CD of their
Caldera 1.2 and he was so sawing in he
he liked it so much that he here
managed to get his he managed to get his
yes he managed to install less them to
manage to get the school authorization
to install systems that had and the ISDN
card and it he had a lot of googling or
whatever was around them in the 2001 and
to but he he never managed to figure out
how to configure a tile on demand so he
had both they did and and ISDN lines
permanently connected as long as that
system was running for almost two years
was so impressed because certainly they
had a stable in committee even if the
phone bill skyrocketed he was still
happy because he that was stable yeah
the old was crap what was kind of speed
were you saying out of the HD you know I
always wanted a faster connection could
be single oh I used to have that a
single a single line or 64 okay and
their dual is the N 138 64 K yeah wow
that's not much no but twenty years ago
on dial-up on a dial-up connection that
that is a whole lot I just I just always
seem to a quite ISDN with high-speed
Internet connections but not so much not
so much yeah that's what you need I
gotta say I gotta say hello to Bo whose
transitions make him look like Agent
Smith
yeah we told you yes hello and
I'll just let you guys know if ever I
mute your microphone it's not that I'm
telling you to shut up it's there's
background noise so if you ever slightly
muted if you ever see that I muted you
it just means that there's background
noise yes sir you you had asked about if
I heard of Adafruit yes when you have a
chance go back and take a look at number
629 it came to mind when you asked about
that so okay - 929 alright no problem
I'll do that
we're just about out of time guys oh my
or in most so today Jeff and myself are
going to be socially distant at Studio E
and get some things set up sash is gonna
be there vicariously through a private
Zoo meeting and we're just going to be
figuring out kind of how things are
going to be set up and be pretty fun so
I'll be vlogging there for patrons and
Kickstarter supporters so you'll see
that beyond that is pictures of the
empty it would be nice to have a final
shot sorry what was that so boo about
the studio yeah
yesterday final tour and your few steel
shots
I remember thinking when I saw the steel
shots but by then it was even too late
to mention it that it would be it would
be further if and nice to have steel of
the cou in the end this video of the
might of the empty studio for a final
time spring the office community we're
talking about studio D yeah it's
probably too light now because ya know I
don't have keys to studio D anymore
right-handed those in this morning but
what I did do is I posted a vlog last
night when I closed down and I did a
panoramic kind of show of what the
studio looks like completely empty
and so that was posted last night and
then I posted some pictures on our
discord as well for those who don't have
access to the blog yeah but it's it's
done so now yeah I don't have to I don't
have to be going to two differents duty
votes to get to your bik wa t that's all
yes I just got to pull that off the roof
this afternoon so and then and then
that's it is it their antenna hanging
tough yeah there's there's an ethernet
cable that's that's bolted to the to the
siding and I'm just gonna leave that
behind
just I'll leave beef in that cable
I think Bo said something that we missed
go ahead Bo I remember saying anything
oh okay as being emotionally distant the
picture yesterday the final story that I
posted on their Facebook and or reposted
put on a big woman had a big gown did to
me at a long avoid circum around I'm an
old-fashioned kind of a part account it
is not possible to to approach without
falling over the entire thing so I don't
normally do that's one way to do social
distancing came to my mind as well well
gents it's been nice seeing you all and
I hope you have a wonderful afternoon I
will be checking in on the vlog this
evening from Studio E and so I look
forward to that and thank you again for
all your support everyone and I will see
you if not before else I'll certainly
see you during tomorrow's coffee break
so take care have a good afternoon I
enjoyed it
so yeah yes
