here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom IBM is laying off
thousands of employees and seeking
flexibility during The Cove at nineteen
crisis account stealing malware is
making his rounds on discord a pizzeria
owner in the US has discovered and
exploited a flaw in door Dash's
marketing scheme and makes money buying
his own pizzas Microsoft has fixed a
critical vulnerability affecting all
Windows versions since 1996 and unmanned
drones will slash NHS delivery times to
a remote Scottish Hospital stick around
the full details are coming up this is
the category five dot TV newsroom
covering a week's top tech stories with
a slight linux bias from the newsroom
i'm becca ferguson both hewlett-packard
enterprise and IBM have announced
significant cost-cutting measures
including pay cuts and significant job
losses the kovat 19 crisis is hitting
almost every market sector hard and now
the dominoes are starting to fall as
other small medium and large businesses
reduce operations or shudder for good
the tech firms that rely on enterprise
clients are themselves taking heavy
losses and laying off personnel IBM
announced its layoffs late Thursday in a
statement the company said the highly
competitive marketplace requires
flexibility to constantly remix
high-value skills which in this case
means decide and you no longer place a
high value on the skills a significant
number of employees bring to the
socially distance table
IBM like many firms now facing cuts and
layoffs was not in the best of financial
situations before Cova 19 hit the
company's CEO Arvind Krishna has been
with the company for decades but only
stepped into the top seed in April
saying at the time he was focused on
building up the parts of the company
that support cloud computing and
artificial intelligence and was willing
to move away from the rest IVM did not
specify how many positions were being
cut but both The Wall Street Journal and
Bloomberg News report thousands of
employees were affected
in five states California New York North
Carolina Missouri and Pennsylvania IBM
said in a statement it would offer
subsidized medical coverage to affected
employees for the next 12 months Hewlett
Packard Enterprise also announced its
cost-cutting plans on Thursday as part
of its more recent quarterly earnings
report the company will cut some
salaries through at least the end of
October with executives seeing pay cuts
of between 20 to 25 percent the company
like younger tech Brethren such as
Facebook and Twitter says it will
further save money by embracing remote
work in the longer term allowing it to
shutter some offices researchers have
found an updated version of Anarchy
grabber that steals victims plaintext
passwords and infects victims friends on
discord detected as Anarchy grabber 3
the new trojan variant modifies the
discord clients javascriptcore upon
successful installation and this
modified version gives the malware the
ability to load other JavaScript files
when the infected disk or client is open
the threat loaded inject j/s from a new
anarchy folder this file loaded another
script called discord magis and the two
scripts together logs the user out at
which point they are prompted to log
back in the new Anarchy grabber variant
then attempts to disable two-factor
authentication on its victims account
and steals information including their
username plaintext password and user
token which it sends to the attackers
own discord server by a web hook the
malware also attempts to spread itself
to other discord users by sending a
message that contains the malware to
everyone on the user's friend list after
modifying the discord client and our key
grabber doesn't run again which makes it
difficult for antivirus software to
detect the threat since there are no
malicious processes it also ensures that
a victim remains part of the botnet
whenever they interact with discord
using the app Robbie how can a user
determine if they're infected
if antivirus can't detect it well Becca
tech savvy users can open the index CAS
file
and then they can check the contents so
on Windows you're gonna find that in its
app data just wrap that in percent signs
to get there really quickly and then
you'll enter the discord folder Linux
and Mac users go to the dot config
hidden folder in your home folder and
within that you'll find the discord
folder holding all the files now on any
architecture the files in from there are
going to be the same so whether you're
on Windows Mac or Linux you'll note that
that there are many many files called
index J s in the tree from that folder
so the one that you're looking for is in
discord underscore desktop underscore
core and the directory format is your
discord version now in my case here on
Windows if that's zero point zero point
306 so I enter that folder then modules
then discord underscore desktop
underscore core and I can check the
contents of the index J ass file and if
it contains anything other than a
command to require core dot s R it's
probably infected thanks Robbie
if you suspect infection uninstall the
discord app and reinstall change your
password and ensure two FA is reenable
diff it's been turned off whether
discord email Facebook or otherwise be
diligent and ensure you only click links
you know you can trust since malware
like this spreads to friend lists it's
also important to remember that just
because it's one of your trusted friends
sending it doesn't mean you can
automatically trust the links a simple
did you send this question could be all
it takes to protect you your account and
your privacy the owner of a pizza
restaurant in the US has discovered the
the door - delivery app has been selling
his food cheaper than he does while
still paying him full price for orders a
pizza for vici charged $24 was being
advertised for 16 on door - and when he
secretly ordered it himself the app paid
his restaurant the full 24 dollars while
charging him 16 so he ordered ten pizzas
pay at $160 and had them delivered to a
friend's house the restaurant was then
paid $240 for the order by door -
in further tests the restaurant prepared
his friends order by boxing up the pizza
base without any toppings maximizing the
profit from the mismatched prices and it
worked
content strategist Rand John Roy who is
a friend of the pizzeria owner blogged
about it he said I was genuinely curious
if doordash would catch on but they
didn't
the curiosity stemmed from the fact that
they had not asked to be put on the app
so it didn't make sense that the company
would be selling their pizza at a loss
they later found out it was part of a
cunning strategy to build customer
demand and then use that demand to get
the restaurant to sign up mr. Roy says
they have a test period where they
scrape the restaurants website and don't
charge any fees to anyone so they can
ideally go to the restaurant with a
positive order data to then get the
restaurant signed on to the platform mr.
Roy is of the opinion that it's bad
business he says you have insanely large
pools of capital creating an incredibly
inefficient money losing business model
doordash is backed by investment giants
Softbank which last week posted a
record-breaking loss of nearly 13
billion thanks beca we do have to take a
really quick break but when we come back
beck has got more of your top tech news
for the week
so stick around
[Music]
researchers have shown that a
vulnerability in a decades-old Microsoft
Windows component that controls printing
could be abused by malicious actors to
gain elevated privileges on the targeted
system the flaw which they dubbed print
demon resides in the print spooler and
get this
it affects all Windows versions since NT
4.0 the component has remained largely
unchanged since even though another
vulnerability affecting it was abused by
the infamous Stuxnet a decade ago
Microsoft said of the fix an elevation
of privileged vulnerability exists when
the Windows print spooler service
improperly allows arbitrary writing to
the file system an attacker who
successfully exploited this
vulnerability could run arbitrary code
with elevated system privileges an
attacker could then install programs
view change or delete data or create new
accounts with full user rights microsoft
laid down the likelihood of exploitation
saying that an attacker would need to
log on to an affected system and use a
specially written script or application
but as we know RDP exploits are
occurring in the wild with malware such
as SAR whant opening a remote access to
Windows systems so in today's connected
world saying a hacker needs to have
access to a system in order to exploit
it is an irresponsible point to make
which could mislead inexperienced IT
departments into complacency the
vulnerability can be abused to elevate
privileges bypass endpoint detection and
response rules and game persistence as
part of this month's Patch Tuesday which
plugged a total of 111 security holes
Microsoft changed how the windows print
spooler component writes data to the
file system and it advised to download
and apply the update this exploit goes
to show why running a version of one of
Windows that is passed end-of-life is
unwise the fix for this exploit will not
be released to eol operating systems
such as Windows XP or even Windows 7
which will remain vulnerable to this
critical flaw perhaps this is also
another example of why it's heightened
to consider switching to Linux remote
control drones will be used to deliver
coronavirus testing kits to a remote
Scottish hospital and they're being
flown outside of the operators direct
line-of-sight backed by the local NHS
trust drone firm Sky ports will fly
drones between the Isle of Mull and Oban
the closest town on the Scottish
mainland we've reported on similar in
recent trial programs and it seems it's
working as more communities begin
tapping into the unmatched capabilities
of UAVs Sky ports chief exec Duncan
Walker speaks about their recent trial
in the Scottish area of Argyll and Bute
saying it provides an important
short-term response to the current
pandemic and lays the foundations from
which to grow a permanent drone delivery
operation across a network of healthcare
facilities around the country his
company will fly unmanned delivery
drones made by German company
wing copter the craft will fly the 17
kilometres between Lauren and Isles
hospital in Oban and I own a community
hospital in Craig nur while 17
kilometres doesn't sound like a long
distance as the crow flies it's a
lengthy arduous journey by Road and
ferry
by contrast sky port says it will take
just 15 minutes by drone the trial will
take place using beyond visual line of
sight rules requiring special permission
from the Civil Aviation Authority drone
flights that go beyond the operators
line-of-sight are normally prohibited
however the main perceived benefit of
aviation drones cannot be realized until
the tech is proven safe enough to be
thought to be flown without a watchful
human nearby in case of collisions the
trial will take place over the next two
weeks completing in the first week of
June big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias
and if you appreciate what we do become
a patron at patreon.com slash category
five from the category five TV newsroom
I'm Becca Ferguson
