Jeff you remember back in the day when
we were just we lads I do and there was
a particular game I'm just gonna reach
over here because I actually have it
Jeff does this bring back any memories
for you oh my gosh yes can you believe
it has been 20 years 20 years sounds
about right seems unreal tournament
which we now call goty or Game of the
Year Edition was released and this is
the the actual disc so you can still get
these on Amazon you'll get them used but
it's only a couple bucks you can also
get the game on Steam for 11 bucks and
you can play Unreal Tournament now this
game I mean for a lot of us holds a lot
of nostalgia oh yeah but 20 years and
it's still absolutely playable it's
still a lot of fun this was the original
I would say Jeff this was the original
deathmatch yeah absolutely I mean it was
out around the same time as like I'm
like Commander Keen yeah but I mean as
far as the first-person shooter it was
that you had Team Fortress
counter-strike they were all kind of
within the same time frame of years but
UT was kind of like that benchmark that
everybody used in I mean even even now
like when I look back on it like I think
I had the most fun with UT compared to
counter-strike or Team Fortress oh yeah
and that was about the time that Jeff
and I got to know one another yes so and
this is part of how we got to know one
another so this is actually kind of
special to category five I think Jeff
yeah because this game this game brought
us closer together what was the other
one where we learned was we played
tremulous tremulous thought formulas is
a Linux game where we were like spiders
yes aliens and running around and
everything that was an open source but
but tremulous as well as Unreal
Tournament what was neat about this is
it was one of the first real games that
was available on Linux yeah so you can
install this directly on Linux now it's
a it's called a PC cd-rom
but right on the back you can see tucks
see that so yes the installer is for
Windows but it also has an installer for
Linux so this was I think one of the
first games so so it made us able to
play deathmatch multiplayer across we
did land parties yeah but what was our
biggest land party would you say oh gosh
I want to say we had four or five
computers at one point eza yeah do you
remember the time when we had a LAN
party and we had like people sitting I
had like the big 40 inch CRT TV and it
was connected to a computer this was
like a big LAN party where we had I
don't know maybe 10 or 15 people over
and and we just had an unreal tournament
LAN party yes oh that was so much fun
those were the days I love that yeah I
think we need to like have another UT
LAN party I think so
20 years in do you think it's still
worth playing
absolutely what do you think folks the
Redeemer was my weapon of choice
what choice do you remember I I you know
what I think the Redeemer was my go to
as well yeah mainly because I just
couldn't catch up with you like for
whatever reason you were really good at
fragging me yeah and with the Redeemer
and I needed to use a Redeemer to at
least kind of have some sort of a
semblance of fighting back we're so good
so great miss that game Unreal
Tournament you can find it on Amazon
still again it's on Steam it is not for
kids I mean we say that it's it's got a
lot of violence but but it's kind of
comic mischievous violence and a lot of
fun and in fact my kids are old enough
that we're starting to play this
together now Jeff which is really really
cool
20 years in folks Unreal Tournament so
you know big kudos to the developers of
that game are you ready for this Jeff I
want to go through the system
requirements folks at home are you ready
for this
seriously requirements yeah okay so I
want to install this on my I $9.99
hundred K at 5 gigahertz with 64 gigs of
RAM but let's make sure we meet the
minimum
requirements according to the jewel-case
here we go system requirements
CPU Pentium 200 megahertz or better
recommended Pentium 2 233 Wow memory 32
megabytes of ram recommended 64
megabytes we're not talking gigabytes
here okay we're talking megabytes 64
mega Ram oh my goodness
remember when we thought that was big
yes okay available hard drive space
required to install Unreal Tournament
back in the day yes yeah take a guess
for me
I'm gonna guess 62 megabytes
you're you're about half halfway there
see I was gonna say 120 yeah that's the
minimum the minimum requirement is a
hundred and twenty megabytes megabytes
recommended because it's got remember
there are two disks here one of them is
the game disk one of them is the extras
if you want the extras you're gonna need
about six hundred and five megabytes
they're that specific it actually says
605 megabytes is recommended okay it's
cd-rom Windows 9x compatible I want to
read this verbatim
it says Windows 9x compatible so that
means this was compatible with Windows
95 and windows 98 yet you can still run
it on Windows 10 and Linux now here in
2019 and this of course came out in you
guessed at 1999 the video PCI local bus
video card 3d accelerator recommended do
you think that my Nvidia r-tx 6000 is
going to be sufficient to play Unreal
Tournament
it only has lag just a little bit I
don't know Jeff it has maybe a little
bit it only has 24 gigs of DDR 6 ram on
board
operating system windows 95 windows 98
windows 2000 because we all played
Unreal Tournament on our Windows servers
didn't we
Windows NT boy a downloadable Linux
version is available at Unreal
Tournament calm it actually says that
right on the jewel-case here network and
internet play via tcp/ip like there
because there oh you can't do this with
fidonet folks know you need a tcp/ip
network that is just what can I say
unreal that's that's your Unreal
Tournament folks happy 20th birthday to
the greatest game probably I'd say of
all time that's the ultimate match game
I think you should join us for a LAN
party because that was before before we
got to know one another
wouldn't it be just a joy folks to have
Sasha and Jeff together and maybe get
the community together to do an unreal
tournament absolutely annihilated right
off the hop I think so now because it
was so long ago
yeah would there be capabilities today
of online like server play yes sir it's
so it's not direct connect to a specific
server it's just open you could join you
you create a server in your game yep and
it gives everyone else access to that
server if it's a public server if it's a
private server its land only or if
somebody has your IP and you've got the
ports open on your network then they'll
be able to play as well wants to turn it
into a VR game well I do have modern
version Sascha
I mean Unreal Tournament is certainly
not dead right but this is the original
the the real deal right here it's too
bad that we couldn't have a bunch of
copies available for our patrons that
way we can have a patron only oh that
would be great well I will say if we had
let's just say community if you were
fans of Unreal Tournament if you don't
already have it
grab a copy and steam again it's only
eleven bucks I got this for six bucks on
Amazon used so you can still get it get
it and get it installed and up and
working and then communicate back to us
here category five TV and let's do it
let's let's do a LAN party guys okay
totally be up for that yeah all right
I'm in there let's do it well we played
the first like MMO Entropia universe Wow
well that was a that was quite a bit
later Jeff it was yeah I mean I do
remember playing that one that was like
right at the beginning of mmo's yeah oh
yeah it still exists as well it's still
it's still out there I still have my pet
so do i yeah
don't know if it really helps me out
these days I've never cashed out but hey
I've got some good ingame that's wrap
stuff but hey that's so cool 20 years I
can't believe it makes me feel a little
bit old but at the same time
[Music]
