covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias having completed its first
human launch SpaceX founder and CEO Elon
Musk says the company is now focusing on
developing its next generation
spacecraft starship a couple weeks back
nice NASA and SpaceX successfully
launched astronauts from US soil for the
first time in almost a decade according
to an internal email sent to staff musk
said that the development on starship is
now the primary focus for the company
alongside the safe return of the crew
dragon from the international space
station starship was unveiled last
September and is designed to carry a
crew and cargo to the moon Mars or
anywhere else in the solar system
according to the billionaire Musk's
intention is to make the spaceflight
vehicles as reusable as planes four
years ago the billionaire outlined his
vision of building a colony on Mars in
our lifetimes with the first rocket
propelling humans to the red planet by
2025 for many years the company used an
image of the Martian surface being
terraformed turn earth-like in his
promotional material however a NASA
spent a sponsored study published in
2018 dismissed these plans as impossible
with today's technology last year Musk
tweeted he believed it was possible to
make a self-sustaining City on Mars by
2050 if we start in five years according
to SpaceX is most recent detailed plans
published in 2016 there are two phases
for the first human transmissions as
part of a programming to colonize Mars
the first will take place in 2022 when
at least two starship rockets will land
on Mars these will be unmanned
spacecraft but containing drones and
robots which will confirm whether there
are sufficient resources of water on the
planet and check for any Geographic
risks the second phase will start in
2024 when another pair of starship
spacecraft will land on Mars with the
first astronauts the
spacecraft will bring equipment and
supplies as well as a number of
production plants for ongoing life on
the planet as well as develop a base of
operations separately the successful
mission for NASA has given the company a
boost ahead of the US Space Agency's new
moon landing program which will return
humans to the moon by 2024 and lay the
groundwork for a manned mission to Mars
NASA's new Artemis program is named
after the mythological sister of Apollo
the first moon missions namesake and is
intended to fly the first woman to the
moon the Artemis program will be used as
a way to develop something called the
lunar gateway essentially a version of
the ISS but orbiting the moon allowing
it to be used as a stepping stone for
missions destined for Mars nASA has
given SpaceX and Blue Origin the nod to
develop its new lunar landers which will
take the first woman and the next man to
the surface of the Moon
[Music]
