[Music]
welcome back to the clip the corner hope
you all well and staying safe and also
hope that last week's corner was of used
to you where we spoke about jobs and the
big opportunities in the blockchain
industry in regards to programming and
coding I forgot to mention one website
which I used to learn Python which is
called hacker rank com that's h AC k ER
ra a and k dot-com which gives you every
day little to us to achieve and that's
how i learned quite nicely to learn in
in python and it's free so give it a try
another thing that I'd like to mention
is it's currently tax season and I
encourage you to take care of those
taxes because local authorities around
the world are starting to work together
with local exchanges and so they will
have most likely your details already
when regards how many Kryptos you have
and so on there are plenty of websites
that you can use and most and they're
very very good in price also so they're
it's fairly cheap to use them and they
are clever in the sense that they also
give you advice when to add I want to
change the position cryptocurrencies in
regards to save taxes so make use of
those websites they will be of use to
you later on to the news market cap of
our industry has not really changed
substantially since last week we're
hovering around 225 billion US dollars
with Bitcoin and having a market share
of 64 percent big dates that are coming
up soon in shellye which is from Cardno
a new development which focuses on
decentralization has been started this
week so they mined the first Genesis
block this week but you see it's not yet
open for the public and for that they're
saying it will be open for the public in
May or June
but that's an important development for
Caetano for you theorem they're saying
that then you theorem 2.0 will come in
July remains to be seen because they
have changed today it's already many
times but that's what they're currently
saying and then the big one is Bitcoin
havening which is coming in around two
weeks now a lot of people are saying
that it will have a big impact on prices
others are saying that it would have no
impact on prices the history is telling
us that it will not have a big impact on
prices immediately that comes at a later
stage but to explain what having the
havening means is currently every 10
minutes around every 10 minutes
Bitcoin issues twelve and a half Bitcoin
the big blockchain ish is 12 and 1/2
Bitcoin to the miners and that will be
half so from a male or two weeks onwards
for the next four years - will receive
only six point two five Bitcoin every
ten minutes so the inflation of the
Bitcoin blockchain will be reduced by by
half and that's why it's called
hardening avenues it's in regards to
defy Saudi central line for
decentralized finance which is to
explain centralized finance is C Phi
which is banks where you have got a
middle person where you've got a company
that you can call to to talk to somebody
D Phi is just based on mathematics and
codes then that's getting very popular
and it's really interesting so if you
have got some time go into D Phi of any
cryptocurrency the development has been
tremendous it's still in test phase so
don't invest any money there or any
substantial money but it's interesting
and BitFenix which is the owner or the
sister company off of tether which is a
stable coin they developed a token which
is called the P token which makes it
possible to exchange funds between our
assets between two to this decentralized
exchanges or exchanges
that is coming which is an interesting
development and coinbase launch source
and Oracle why is what was in Oracle is
tool that tells you a specific value at
a specific time for example the price of
Bitcoin as you know there are probably
over four hundred five hundred exchanges
that are trading in Bitcoin and they all
have a different price I mean it's a
minimal difference but what happens if
there's a crash and the difference
between those exchanges will be
substantial and that is of importance
for for example these defy platforms
which price should they use if they have
to liquidate a position and for that
they're differently developing Oracle's
and coinbase just launched a price
Oracle and that will be life or it's
already life and next is the auto auto
foundation took a decision to change
smart contracts idea they initially had
that and the base layer and they chew
moving that now to layer to layer to
fund a solution so it's like the
Lightning Network to Bitcoin it's not
part of the base cryptocurrency it's a
level higher so that is a decision that
they took let's see if that comes
because it's not the first time that
they changed that and yeah that's that's
it for me so I wish you a great week
we'll see I hope to see you next week
and we're this back to the studio
thank you Robert just a reminder that
we're not providing financial advice but
only sharing what's happening in the
cryptocurrency market
always remember that the cryptocurrency
markets are ever-changing and always
volatile you should only spend what you
can afford to lose
