here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom an
open source bug poses a danger a
dangerous threat to sites running on
Joomla Drupal or typo3 a zero-day
exploit in whatsapp has been used in
targeted spyware attacks surprise
Microsoft has sent out free remote
desktop security patches for antiquated
systems from Windows XP up to Server
2008 in an effort to prevent a possible
wanna cry like attack San Francisco is
the first US city to ban facial
recognition these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight linux bias Jeff Weston
Jemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website
what
aren't you your terrible actor what this
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host I'm satiric mannan here the
top stories were following this week an
open source bug poses a dangerous threat
to sites running Joomla Drupal or typo3
developers and security researchers are
warning that websites running the Drupal
Joomla or typo3 content management
systems all are vulnerable to attacks
that could possibly execute malicious
code until administrators installed just
released patches the vulnerability
resides in the far stream wrap a PHP
component developed and open sourced by
CMS maker typo3
the flaw stems from a path Trez
transversal bug that allows hackers to
swap a site's legitimate fire archive
with a malicious one a fire archive is
used to distribute a complete PHP
application in a library or single file
in much the way a Java archive file
bundles many Java files into a single
file Drupal developers rated the
severity of the vulnerability affecting
their CMS as moderately critical that's
well below the highly critical rating of
a recent Drupal vulnerability and an
earlier remote execution flaws that took
the name Drupal gedan still the
vulnerability represents enough of a
risk that administrators should patch it
as soon as possible on Drupal where the
exploit was first detected an attacker
would have to have limited administrator
privileges such as those given to
marketing people or graphic designers
pardon me
however some
community modules might be vulnerable
because of this flaw in the Drupal core
Joomla developers meanwhile issued their
own advisory that rated the severity is
low typo3 developers didn't provide a
severity rating for their own CMS Drupal
users should update to the latest point
release right away patches have been
issued for versions seven eight point
six and eight point seven on Joomla the
flaw affects versions three point nine
point three through three point nine
point five and the fix is available in
three point nine point six typo3 CMS
users should either upgrade to far
stream rap-rap versions v three point
one point one and V two point one point
one manually or ensure composer
dependencies are raised to those
versions okay that was a mouthful yeah
I'm like that's like a dr. Seuss book
right there and it's warm in here I mean
how many website is freezing what are
you talking about websites run off
Drupal and Joe yeah that's those of the
go to them you may not even know well
and you know WordPress is there too yet
it's not affected by this particular
actually but so if you're not familiar
with Drupal Joomla or typo3 you can
think Allah WordPress same kind of idea
but you think about okay well they'd
have to have administrator access to
some degree in order to exploit this but
what does that mean well every customer
who has ever called me and said I want
to be able to edit my phone number
myself whenever it changes they have
access to doing that yeah right they
don't always have the strongest of
passwords let alone the best of security
mindedness necessarily so it's not just
the super administrators who know their
way around these platforms it's the
people who are editing their website for
them who may be a very lower level
employee or even like a co-op student or
something who has access to changing
things on their website for them very
common you have small business owners
that typically will try and use an
easy-to-use platform to
their own website yeah and quite often
there is something like Drupal throw the
you know extensions in get this site up
and then walk away like I never got to
update the content so I could just leave
it sitting there and not paying
attention to the style so for those that
have a Drupal based Joomla base or the
other one I'm blanking on what type of
type one three site did they get an
alert today they get something from
there is this is your alert warning Jim
wheeler if you're using Joomla upgrade
something else yeah I'm surprised that
they said it's not a severe
vulnerability I think it's funny that
they have certain levels of severe yeah
there's low severe low critical like
this is a critical issue it really is
critical in that as I say like a lot of
companies have lower level employees who
have access to that there it should be
safe or unsafe at this point unsafe this
is really safe let's just say it's
critical up update and I understand what
you're saying but at the same time
there's a difference between by the way
anybody can do this on your site versus
somebody needs to have some sort of
admin access to make this happen so
there's a couple more steps that have to
be applied before this exploit can be
utilized so I can understand why they're
saying it's not quite end of the world
you know issues this Drupal get like
Drupal getting but definitely not
something you want to have sitting
around for too long and especially if
you don't have secure passwords I mean
how many people like oh my goodness
there's so many sites they're all the
same password just a number at the end
come on
okay now that's work one two three four
but does that not make us complacent if
I believe it by believing that this is
critical but it's not that important
it's not that dangerous like let's just
okay this is a really serious exploit
that can allow code execution on my
server right yeah we're just saying this
is a suggestion to fix get effects yeah
just update let's just play it safe and
just update your server or your website
for sure sounds it sounds fair
a zero-day exploit in whatsapp has been
used in targeted spyware attacks the
vulnerability that allowed attackers to
install spyware on victims phones has
been patched but it's too late for many
as attackers were able to inject spyware
onto phones and targeted malware
campaigns the popular messaging app
discovered in early May that attackers
were installing surveillance software on
iPhones and Android phones by using
whatsapp Skol function whatsapp
confirmed on Monday that the flaw which
has now been patched is a buffer
overflow vulnerability in whatsapp swipe
stack which allows remote access in
execution via specifically specially
crafted series of secure packets sent to
a target phone number Adam brown manager
of security solutions at synopsis says
quote victims of this attack include
journalists and activists attackers are
able to use the victim's phone as a room
tap look at or change information on the
phone and find the victims location
among other things end quote
whatsapp is owned by Facebook and is
used by 1.5 billion people globally the
messaging platform touts itself as a
secure end-to-end encryption app for
communication security experts are
urging whatsapp users to update their
apps as soon as possible
yikes secure write whatsapp is supposed
to be that secure go to and yeah and
your your your source is said that this
is used by and is being exploited people
are being exploited that are like
journalists and activists and I mean you
think about journalists in dangerous
scenarios they're going to use what what
is known to be a secure app in order to
do their communications so what what
they didn't say is how do you identify
if you have been compromised with the
spyware yeah yeah they knew it's already
too late for people right so just so I
guess assume you have been especially if
you're in a situation sure but then how
do you like least with my phone I have I
have some monitoring software from ESET
so I'm hoping that that would catch it
what I mean if not everybody thinks to
protect their phone again know like ESET
mobile security will warn you if an app
is trying to gain access that you have
not authorized however the problem is is
that something like whatsapp if you use
it for encrypted phone calls which I
have not but if you do which a
journalist would write what are they
gonna do when he set says it that hey
this app that you're using whatsapp is
using your microphone allow yes right so
now that app is allowed so if that app
is exploited even with anti-malware
even with some form of protection and
even being a smart user you have no
control over the fact that hey yeah you
authorized the microphone to be used and
now it's actually a wiretap so if you
suspect that you are one of the people
who are affected if you uninstall the
app and do a factory reset of your phone
would not get rid of the spyware no you
lose everything yeah you would lose
everything you almost hope that just
updating the software like the version
of whatsapp to the latest because
they've patched it the Facebook has
fixed it right but it's those versions
that are susceptible that have received
the packet and being exploited right
whether it's retroactive or not maybe
that's something for you to enquire you
have what's happened use it get into the
community and find out I don't have the
answer to that session that's an ominous
thought like even if you update does
that fix it we're out we're not you're
right hearing that right does it protect
you for future yes but does it fix
what's happened in the past yeah if
you've already been exploited is it
retroactive and fixes it or are you
exploited and permanently exploited
that's the question but it just goes to
show that even an app that you think is
safe mm-hmm because that's what whatsapp
has promoted itself ass yeah it's true
yep and yeah you authentic you
authorized it to use certain aspects of
your phone and then that's exploited and
guess what
you've given access to those malicious
parties yep yep scary stuff
surprised Microsoft has sent out free
remote desktop security patches for
antiquated systems from Windows XP to
Server 2008 in an effort to prevent a
possible wanna cry like attack it's that
time of the month again and Microsoft
has released a bumper bundle of security
fixes for a patch Tuesday but this time
they've done something outside the norm
by including patches for out of support
operating systems such as Windows XP and
Server 2003 usually support for such
aging operating systems cost big bucks
for companies who want to keep running
it but Microsoft has released a freebie
because of the serious nature of a
critical flaw in Remote Desktop Services
or Terminal Services as it was the
vulnerability allows remote code
execution with no user involvement or
any authentication required making it a
gift to anyone wanting to spread malware
basically find one of the countless
vulnerable Windows boxes facing the
internet or on a network and send a
carefully crafted packets to its remote
desktop service if running to start
executing malicious code on the machine
from there other computers can be found
by scanning IP ranges and then you've
got a proper old-school worm on your
hands a Microsoft advisory states that
because the vulnerability can be were
mobile any future malware that exploits
it could propagate from vulnerable
computer to vulnerable computer in a
similar way as their wanna cry malware
spread across the globe in 2017 using
the internal eternal blue NSA exploit
Microsoft warns that it is highly likely
malicious actors will write an exploit
for this vulnerability and incorporated
into their malware it's important that
affected systems are patched as quickly
as possible to prevent such a scenario
from happening it's a certainty that
this will be exploited in the wild since
it's a low-cost highly effective way of
quickly distributing ransomware and
Trojans Windows 8 and 10 are unaffected
but there's still a vast pool of older
systems out there that could be hit if
left unpatched including Windows 7
and XP the affected operating system
builds include Windows 7 Windows Server
2008 r2 Windows Server 2008 Windows
Server 2003 and Windows XP what a lot I
think Microsoft was still servicing
those versions well they are only two
companies that are paying for extended
support what but now they're going there
they're saying ok this is so serious
that we have to patch this do you guys
this is one of those things where it
could you know they could have said oh
we won't worry about it but the PR
nightmare that cut could come from it
they're like let's just roll this out
forever I don't even know is it fully a
PR thing or is it like they have a heart
like because like I think about Windows
XP who's still running Windows XP it's
gonna be hospitals and it's gonna be
like places like that that have not got
the budget to finally get on to current
hardware it's typically he's not very
behind absolutely so we know that yeah
so but a hospital for as the example
which has been hit in the UK by want to
cry
and that affects lives and dangers lives
yeah now what happens if all these
machines which you know maybe they're
old like heart monitors and and who
knows what else and what if they're
impacted by that so you know it's just
gotta be it's just got to be patched I
mean we should we know we shouldn't be
running Windows XP we probably shouldn't
be running Windows 7 at this point do
keep in mind if you have Windows 7
installed on your machines and of life
is January so you know we're very fast
approaching that end of life it's smart
that they do this because it protects
everybody you know from the spread right
because it's it's not just gonna affect
the older versions it would I guess self
propagator well you're right that if
let's say we've got that one Windows XP
machine in the back room
and we think oh well nobody uses that so
you know just don't worry about it mhm
and never think twice about it but
that's the one that's going to be
exploited right guess what it's on the
same land it's on the same network as
your best computers right and in a
hospital environment all of your
hospital computers all of your all of
your point-of-sales in a store all of
everything that you have is connected to
that same network right in the chat room
Malpeque just mentioned that you know a
lot of ATMs absolutely I mean I remember
you still see a story yeah so anytime
there's a blue screen of death in an ATM
I laugh because it's still Windows XP
airports airports are still using XP on
some of their system I mean not not the
best modern airports but not every
Airport is the best you know they're not
all Pearson International right you know
so these are you know they've put in
their hundreds of thousands of dollars
worth of computer hardware that still
works
so why should we change that why should
we put hundreds of thousands dollars
more into it when it's still working
yeah and and and there's no budget for
that in a lot of cases not necessarily
with an airport but I'm just giving
examples where you know we end up with
an older hardware or older software and
we're susceptible still got to get a
fixed it's true it's good that Microsoft
is actually stepping up and doing that
because it really could lead to disaster
yeah oh absolutely I think it's
important to note because this is a
remote desktop exploit I just want to
say that remote desktop in and of itself
is not a safe thing to have turned on in
your computer correct
anyways right turn it off don't have it
turn it on and the reason I say that
there are tools that allow you to remote
into your computers that are safe that
if somebody tries to attack it will
block them remote desktop on the other
hand is a service on your computer that
when turned on allow you to connect to
your computer from home however there's
no security that's right if your
password is anything and your password
could easily be guessed by a bot yeah on
your computer so think about this for a
second there they're gonna connect they
find them through the internet they find
computers that have RDP running and they
start guessing at the password guessing
at the password you never know you would
never know that they're trying to guess
at your password
and come two o'clock in the morning when
they finally gain access to your
computer and you're at home in bed they
can recall kind of kinds of havoc
because guess what your computer also
has access to the server on your network
and everything else so now your network
is completely compromised and people say
well how did I get ransomware I've got
antivirus because you also had RDP
enabled and you've allowed an actual
party to hack into 'the using ab on your
computer and then a real person got in
because the bot now notifies them and
says here's the password to get into
this IP address either they have
exploited your network or they've taken
your network they've analyzed it figured
out what kind of assets you have and
then they've sold that to a third party
in order to compromise your network
let's turn off good test ok Wow just
turn it off San Francisco is the first
US city to ban facial recognition the
emergent emerging technology will not be
allowed to be used by local agencies
such as the city's Transport Authority
or law enforcement additionally any
plans to buy any kind of new
surveillance technology must now be
approved by city administrators
opponents of the measure said that it
will put people safety at risk and
hinder efforts to fight crime those in
favor of the move said that technology
as it exists today is unreliable and
represented an unnecessary infringement
on people's privacy and liberty in
particular opponents argued that the
system us are error-prone particularly
when dealing with women or people with
darker skin Matt Kaggle from the
American Civil Liberties Union in
Northern California says that by banning
facial recognition San Francisco has
declared that the technology is
incompatible with a healthy democracy
and that residents deserve a voice in
decisions about how high-tech
surveillance about high-tech
surveillance the vote was passed by San
Francisco's supervisors 8 to 1 with two
absent EES the measure is expected to be
officially passed into law after a
second vote next week ok
hmm okay it's interesting how the
technology has risen up and hey this is
the time that we live in right we're
right it makes me wonder though like I
don't know if they have a casino at you
know in the city but a lot of casinos
use facial recognition software to pick
out their frequent problem clients that
are gonna hang and stuff like that it
makes me wonder how that would impact
businesses if it that are utilizing it
mm-hmm
and I think that's why some opponents to
the law have called for them to instead
of banning it outright to be to allow
certain industries to allow it for it
right right but they've clamped down on
it and said no yeah not at all it'd be
interesting to know I feel like I've
just said that twice but if somebody
like if you use facial recognition if
you had to post it you know it's one
thing to say oh like you know this place
is monitored by you know closed caption
recording but if it said this building
uses facial recognition we use AI it'd
be interesting to see how that impacted
things instead of saying oh we're not
banning it but you have to signify
facial recognition is used if people
would go ooh okay I wonder if they would
reconsider if it weren't so I guess
unreliable because it's under that's it
well I heard in the news recently about
a young man who was arrested because of
facial recognition right we don't know
was his claim that he was innocent
true or false right but what if it
raises a very big what-if mm-hmm what if
the facial recognition was incorrect
what if you walked into a place did your
shopping and then paid and left and went
home and then saw your face on the news
because facial recognition said that you
stole something from that store well I
mean any retail outlet build shrinkage
into their business model because you
know you're gonna have no no no I know
that aside though no but so you take
that aspect and go what if businesses
all over the place had you know facial
recognition built into their software so
it automatically created a police report
and the fallout from this mm-hmm you
know and then to see you know if that
was in place and then with this ban on
facial recognition how would it change
the game like there's so many variables
to it like where could it have gone you
change industry standards versus where
is it limited now that almost makes me
think what if they created a controlled
environment and allowed the the AI to go
wild right and and to believe if it has
any form of consciousness to believe
that it has the authority to decide
who's guilty and who's innocent and in
this controlled environment where we
know who's guilty and who's innocent
because it's all a Truman Show yeah what
if what if we then look at those reports
and say okay well that that AI says the
Sasha stole a stereo system right and we
know she didn't right but that's the
thing like what if somebody looks like
you and the AI says that's what if I did
steal it and then I went home and got
some Botox or anything right and then
all of a sudden my face doesn't match
the face that stole it and if the AI as
we've learned has problems with racial
discrimination yeah how like where does
it how this is a big problem because now
okay well now who's safe it's like we
already deal with racial issues with
with you know guilty before proven
innocent right so is this decision
premature to all-out ban it or is it
more a fear-based decision or like or is
it it's not ready yet
it's near not going to allow it let's
see how it evolves over the next little
while right I mean it's gonna be used
other places San Francisco can just
watch those other places and see when
they're ready to jump in
I like it set up the controlled
environment let's see if sasha is a
mastermind criminal I believe she is
well now that I've said that the AI
thinks you are things I say are always
true maybe that's gonna show up in you I
never make a mistake right yes dear okay
I want to take a really quick look at
coin gecko and if you were watching the
show last week you know that we
mentioned that the entire market of
cryptocurrency is extremely volatile ya
never know from week to week what is
going to happen last week wasn't really
good for Bitcoin no you know what last
week was just kind of everything for the
past few weeks has just been kind of
hovering coin was up like 500 bucks dude
you have no idea I because last week it
was just kind of hovering right there
and then this week so here we are seven
days later so you might be thinking four
days later right but here we are seven
days later crypto currency is going
crazy so anyone who bought last week one
week ago if you bought one Bitcoin you
gained two thousand two hundred and
twenty six US dollars good for you Wow
I'm talking a jump from last week's five
thousand nine hundred $16.21 us to this
week a Bitcoin being worth eight
thousand one hundred and forty two
dollars and forty six 36 cents u.s.
litecoin also gaining quite
significantly from seventy four dollars
and thirty one cents last week to 101
fifty nine this week aetherium if you're
investing or mining aetherium we also
jumped up gaining seventy one dollars
and seventy cents which doesn't sound
like a lot of money but I mean this is
per coin and this is a coin that last
week was only one hundred and seventy
dollars yeah so to gain $71 that's
almost doubling it's an incredible game
yeah Manero at 66 48 last week gained 25
98 this week and within the past seven
days is now up at ninety two dollars and
46 cents now our little guys torque aka
PKA stellite is
is gaining ever-so-slightly so cute 1.63
ten thousandth of a cent gaining 0.44
ten thousandth of a cent internal coin
also up at one point four four ten
thousandth of a cent do remember I mean
even though we're looking at these
numbers this weekend going wow I wish I
bought a Bitcoin last week yeah the the
entire cryptocurrency market is always
open so it could change overnight I mean
it could change a 1 a.m. and then again
at 1:30 a.m. it's right and you never
know what's gonna happen next it's
extremely volatile you never really know
what's happening and there are too many
factors as far as what's driving it
right now it has not stabilized so if
you decide to invest or mine make sure
you are extremely careful my suggestion
is just don't invest anything that you
aren't willing to lose solid advice I
like to think so big thanks to Roy W
Nash in our community of yours of for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Richmond and I'm Robbie Ferguson
and I'm Jeff Weston
[Music]
[Applause]
