Canadian folklore and ghost stories as
retold by author Becca Ferguson narrated
by Robbie Ferguson this is the lost
world of the Nahanni Valley Northwest
Territories
the Nahanni river winds its way through
a mist shrouded gorge known as the
valley of the headless men in the
Canadian Northwest Territories the
National Reserve is filled with canyons
caves geysers towering Peaks untouched
forests and a waterfall twice the height
of Niagara Falls with its wailing winds
the mysterious valley can only be
accessed by foot or plane what's more it
is believed by indigenous peoples to be
haunted whose oral history speaks of
lurking spirit creatures indeed the
headless Valley namesake came about due
to several unexplained deaths during the
gold rush of the early 20th century
in 1906 the MacLeod brothers set out in
search of gold but their bodies were
later found by a creek both decapitated
heads never found in 1917 the headless
body of a swiss prospector was found
near a river then in 1945 the body of a
miner from Ontario was found in his
sleeping bag again without a head
while some speculated the deaths to be
the work of a serial killing hermit
others disagreed too much time and
passed between each killing to be the
work of one madman the Danai dog rib and
Inuit tribes of the area had a different
explanation altogether for centuries
they had feared a violent race of
ape-like humanoids they called the nuke
look as well as a large canid creature
called Mahela in 1964 John Baptist a
European along with his trapper
companions reported a frightening
encounter with these new cloak
describing them as a hairy bearded
Neanderthal race less than five feet
tall dressed in moose skin and carrying
clubs but the guajillo are more
terrifying still believed to be evil
spirits that protect the land against
human intruders they travel alone taking
only the heads of their victims
looking like Snow White wolves with the
broad face and clawed paws of a bear
they resemble the long extinct bear dog
known as emphysema died thus it has been
said that the Nahanni Valley may well be
a lost world a remote land stalked and
guarded by surviving relics of a far
earlier time those who dare venture into
the unknown depths of this vast reserve
do so at their own peril for many who
have gone did nary returned
[Music]
this has been the lost world of van Hani
Valley Northwest Territories part of
Becca Ferguson's Canadian folklore and
ghost stories series catch the complete
and ever-growing series on Wattpad or
directly on the author's website Becca
Ferguson comm like comment and be sure
to subscribe so you don't miss the next
tale
