welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 616 so nice to see
you and this Sasha yes where's your
computer well yours are how are you
gonna follow the chat room and do all
those kinds of things I need a computer
oh let me hook you up what check out
this little SP that's not a computer
that's a tic tac this little thing is a
single-board computer we've got beau
here from Ameritrade who's gonna be
showing us some of the exciting things
that he has brought in his bag fighting
adult and that is pretty cool we're
gonna learn what that one is as well as
some other things and find out how
single-board computers are
revolutionising the enterprise and their
data centers stick around get chatting
this is category 5 technology TV
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamers tune in every week on roku
Kodi Plex and other HLS video players
for local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it stuck it's here
cat 5 dot TV slash ppm and the
International Association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show everybody my name is
Robby Ferguson I am Sasha Rickman Jeff
Weston great to see it Before we jump
into a very exciting show this week I
want to remind you to subscribe to us on
YouTube click that bell as well and
that's going to ensure that you receive
a notification every time we post a new
and exciting content folks I am very
very pleased to have Bo with us from a
marriage ride bo great to see you thanks
for having thanks for making the trip oh
it's a pleasure bo made the the trek
with his wife rosemary all the way from
sunny California to our beautiful city
of sunny berry this week and we're gonna
be talking a lot about a single board
computing in the enterprise and in the
data center that sounds like a good
thing to talk about mm-hmm so let's
let's jump right into it first of all
can you tell us a little bit about
Ameritrade how you guys got started I
mean single board computers themselves
are a very new thing yeah
relatively speaking in the in the grand
scheme of computing right and they're
really making a lot of they're changing
a lot of markets and a lot of industries
how do you get involved in in becoming
one of the most respected and most well
known sales Depot's for single board
computers well first of all I'm honored
that you say that Center story true
story secondly so I heard about the
Raspberry Pi before it was launched and
I said I need to get one of these things
because I've always been a tinkerer
programmer restaurant electronics you
know I let a lot of smoke out of a lot
of components over the years and
and so anyway the Raspberry Pi one was
announced they didn't call it the one at
the time because it was the only one it
was the first and and I got my first
Raspberry Pi in the first batch they
shipped out and I put the distro on it
on an SD card and played with it I was
trying to build a surveillance camera
basically that okay processes all of the
all the data all the information the
video frames and everything on the
camera and only when it has a finished
product that sends it to a server so so
kenny takes care of the transcoding and
everybody so it most IP cameras are
really noisy on the network because you
got a ping every frame okay an
interesting you have a big server like
we had been installing some server or
some odd IP camera systems for customers
and you could put in this huge server
yeah
thousands of dollars in in iraq and
maybe get 20 something cameras on it Wow
yeah because that's all the networking
you know the network could be saturated
also depending on how much data like if
you want to do 1080p 30 frames per
second forget it yeah you know that's
not gonna happen so well maybe with one
camera but sure yeah that was 20
something camera yes right and so we'd
be going to these server closets and
they'd be so hot because the server is
like just working its tail off trying to
process all of these video streams or
all these actually snapshots from these
IP cameras yeah I'm doing motion
detection you know region detection all
kinds of things and then turning them
into a finished product right that you
can view later yeah so so I wanted to
use with Raspberry Pi and it worked
great for about one or two days and then
it would lock up for no reason so now is
this the coders fault or the the I
originally I blame myself okay right
because yes I must be doing something
wrong yeah yeah and that's a lot of data
to be putting through a Raspberry Pi
first gen it is but you know there
there's a razz pee
Khem capture software and you can run
that you know it's like as a user you
could run that as many times as you want
and it seemed to work fine no so it
downloaded as a h.264 basically it's mp4
and the problem that I had then was well
it would lock up and and whatever log I
you know I would initiate to try to find
out what was going on would never show
anything wrong with the system
right and so I said well I'll switch
Arch Linux so I installed Arch Linux and
same problem okay so I was like well I
think this is probably not a coding
problem because I made it the simplest
possible thing yeah basically capture
ten seconds of video loop and repeat
alright and and I would have logs
checking things like how much disk use
it usages that are flowing to discard
Ram and none of those things were
happening so so then I thought well
there there might be something else on
the market so I want to looked and and
the Odroid u2 was available at the time
for 89 bucks okay and so I was like well
I'm gonna get that play with that so
yeah I got that and I was blown away by
how fast it was you
I believe the u2 today could put the
Raspberry Pi for to erase for its money
yeah yeah because it is so fast I mean
that's I we still use them at Amerigo
I'd yeah yeah yeah yeah oh defused so
you started as a maker yourself like
just as a fan just like any of us
looking at Raspberry Pi and and all and
then branching out into other single
board computers when the PI wasn't
powerful enough right well actually I
was looking to replace some solutions
that were available but not really very
well implemented like the you know
trying to get too many cameras all right
server okay so a lot of these things
like a lot of places like casinos or
whatever they'll have whole racks yes
yes servers the separate Network right
everything
so I wanted to develop a solution that
that could handle hundreds of cameras on
one single board computer on one network
was the one server and as a servers as a
single board computer because all it's
doing is its being a file share okay
right yeah so then how did you
transition from being like a fan a maker
a tinkerer building this neat design
camera system to now you're running a
marriage right and and and founded a
marriage right right well what happened
is the ODE raid forum I was spending a
lot of time on there because yes in
development and they said hey we want to
put out our own like magazine user
magazine immediately and we're looking
for editors and content creators and
things like that and I've always been
kind of a english nerd so so I thought
well hey I can do some editing yes yeah
like I'll read like New York Times
stories and say oh look at all these
grammar mistakes stay away from my blog
okay and well you know I expect that
from I expect proper writing from you
know big news organization that a lot of
times especially it's off-putting
farther we get along in technology it
seems like the worst the writing gets
but yeah that's beside the point
I just wanted the the order in magazine
to be done well and so I I was assistant
editor to Rob Roy who is still the
current editor of the magazine and I did
that for about a year
Heart Journal approached me because they
knew we had experience in distributing
technology in the past specifically
amiga computers right 90s and and they
said hey we're looking for somebody to
distribute our products and kind of a
long story is we ended up doing it so
cool and here we are yeah 2019 and
things are evolving at a very very fast
pace we're seeing like the Raspberry Pi
4 is leaps and bounds above where you
were with the with the version 1 well
I'm fine I'm finally happy to say that
Broadcom has put out a good product yes
I mean they've been great products for I
mean Roku boxes used to use them and a
lot of different things right he's
brought that's right yeah so so what
boards beyond Raspberry Pi Oh droid
piny 64 ya pine 64 atomic pi yeah Nvidia
Jetson let's see we have about 40
something different distinct models of
single board computers in stock Wow so
you have stock of atomic pie yes we do
oh I got one right in a bag right here
fantastic and we also carry all the
accessories like the like the like the
white box power supply in it and the
baby breakout board which is in high
demand yeah because it's difficult to to
power an atomic pie yeah and this one
may I
you may look at this we've got so this
has a marriage roid right on it right so
this is your own product that is yes if
you flip it over it has one of our
engineers names on there Bo Thompson
he's one here you go
designed the board and and had it
manufactured and then very nice but yes
this is also available this board is
available from Digital loggers which is
the company that distributes the atomic
pie
but we had this period of time where we
could not get them and so we had some
really high high needs for getting a
bunch a lot of demand right if you're
selling the atomic pie but you don't
have the right the board's to power I
think we recorded like six to eight
weeks and basically we turned these out
in three or four weeks so you just start
it built it's like forget that let's
build our own well no we still we still
get him from digital log yes but this
board was just a stopgap okay okay isn't
that cool so what boards do you
personally and maybe this is you know
maybe a touchy subject because I mean he
sells them right so so let's with the
disclaimer that hey this question is is
not a leading question I just I'm
curious with all the experience that you
have with single board computers are
there any particular lines or products
that you are that you can say you just
love yes
so raspberry pie is a great community
they have they have tons of projects
they have tons of accessories so if
you're a beginner the Raspberry Pi for
you know the whole Raspberry Pi line is
a great line to get started with yeah
but I find at least for myself and
people I would assume like me will grow
out of that pretty quick and the
difference is between what raspberry-pi
does and what a no droid or a pint 64
does is very minimal you know they're
still running Linux yeah in server and
I've taken projects that were developed
for the Raspberry Pi and just recompile
them on another system like a no droid
or Arak 64 etienne so those are what
what I look for is when I'm starting a
project what are the requirements of the
project you know what what are the
things I need the project to do and then
I find the board that meets those needs
at the lowest cost
sure so sometimes it's a rock 64
sometimes a little rock pro 64 there's a
big price difference between those two
yeah sometimes it's an ode droid like
here we've got these are Odroid HC twos
there's two of them stacked together and
this is for a ransomware deterrent
system basically it protects your
network the data on your network from
ransomware because one of these systems
is not accessible from the network cool
the other system is so as many of these
as they need as a company and enterprise
municipality needs you can be placed
around the network around this of the
system and configured to dump data on to
the network accessible share yeah and
the non network accessible share takes
snapshots and archives those of the data
on here so so if you get attacked so I'm
all my files are encrypted what happens
if your files are encrypted
of course this wants to be you want just
talking ransomware like malicious
scripts right you want to be sized you
want to have the drive size to hold
enough data yeah basically so it depends
on how many systems how big the systems
are yeah and a nice thing about the hd2
is it can be stacked so we can stack
numerous ones on top of here and have
any number of them be offline and any
number of the online so
so you can have a nice little Tower of
HC to sister or I might use HD ones as
well but what happens is that data gets
archived on a schedule so it could be
daily it could be hourly you know it
could be weekly or whatever you want and
actually what I like to do is with my
archive backups is half of the archive I
have whatever the schedule is and then
the other half of the archive it starts
deleting the it starts deleting the
archives between dates so oh so you go
back to like yesterday right day before
yesterday a week before that right a
week before ok yeah yeah so I have a
cron job basically that that'll clean it
out cool in this case we're developing
the software for this so that it does it
all automatically because most nice
enterprises want a solution that's a
project that's what we're gonna be
talking about in just a couple moments
time is how this can be used in
enterprise and it really makes me think
about how the software needs to be there
and I mean like ready to go here are the
specs here's how you build it we need to
HC to s or HC ones and this is how you
wire it in here's the software to make
it happen and when that happens when
that software is readily available now
all of a sudden the yes the demand is
there but now the facility is there as
well so that the IT department can say
here's the product this is what we're
going to do and and right now we're
ready now most enterprise IT departments
will want to put it through a
verification process even or auditing
yeah and and so you'll want to have a
huge Department will want to be able to
do that right so the the solution will
be something that they can buy and then
they can just put on their network onto
the dirt test net or whatever and then
test it out and see how it works and you
know maybe they need to configure
something so that it meets their
requirements yeah and
then they'll do like a test data data
restore and things like that that's
important those are always important
yeah any kind of a lot of companies will
have a backup solution in place and
never run that test scenario numbers
yeah and then ransomware hits and they
realize we're gonna be down for four
days right mmm not acceptable that's
gonna hurt the business big-time some
cities are down for weeks with renze
yeah yeah no that doesn't happen does it
Bo no not at all so my question my
question was which one is your favorite
yes and I like the way you answer
because there is no answer to that there
is no answer yes it's on the features it
just to summarize what you said it's
what is the project requiring so
sometimes I may need an end to that may
be appropriate for the project maybe I
need something with more oomph more CPU
power but sometimes I may just need a
Raspberry Pi right or a Raspberry Pi
zero even like I'm working on a really
cool project I think is cool you can
tell me what you think
but our GPIO extender takes the GPIO
from a Raspberry Pi sends it over IP
based networks to a Raspberry Pi zero
and uses the headers on that board so
now it can be anywhere the smart
controller exactly and it's and it's
clever as well but in that use case I'm
not gonna use a Raspberry Pi four for
the effort the endpoint yeah is a rather
quite zero yeah so it absolutely what's
my favorite board depends on the use
case I think that's the best answer
that's why we carry so many models
perfect no I mean I like what you're
doing with with that stack but what
other projects are you kind of working
on that like I get you jive DUP in the
morning well I was actually talking
about this with rosemary and one of the
things we want to do is set up like
you're talking about the Backblaze
server yeah so this is about doing
something a box like an ass unit that
holds 60 hard drives or something like
that or 30 hard then the same amount of
data yeah and its consumer drives which
makes it rather cheap as far as you know
when the drives fail right no that's
that's a good solution
I think presently it's about
I think according to our website 3.6
cents or 3.8 cents a gigabyte yeah at
their cost and right I sense a gigabyte
at the consumers cost basically if
you're if you're building it yourself
because you don't have the volume of
scale that they have because we buy tens
of thousands driving here and you're
right by tens of thousands of drive so
you won't get the same prices that your
wife would be very upset with but I did
a little calculation while I was here in
Bari just to see what what it would take
to do the same thing single board
computers okay instead of you know this
big motherboard and and SATA controllers
and all these other things that you
would need to do this make power
supplies and what I came out with was
around three cents a consumer price per
gigabyte no way yeah no he'll take a
little more space because you're gonna
lose some of your drive slots for Rock
Pro 64's right
that was the is actually one of the more
expensive single board computers the
rock pro 64 right and the reason that I
chose that as the as a candidate for
this project is because it has a PCIe
slot right you put a duel say to card in
there right and so you can run two
drives from one Rock pro 64 let's say
you're using four terabyte drives what a
lot of people don't realize is that the
more terabytes you put into a drive the
more expensive per gigabyte they are yes
I mean so so four terabyte drive is a
good balance and you call it this sweet
spot right divide it by the number of
gigs and figure out where your sweet
spot is right so so building this we
could probably put somewhere between
thirty and forty five rock Pro are sorry
drives yeah about half that number of
rock for 64 and so not only is it a a
cluster data storage yeah
it also unlike the Backblaze which only
works over HTTP that's only way you can
write and read data really okay
according to what I read on their
website anyway if the data is current I
would expect it to have I scuzzy or any
kind of well was able to communicate is
the communication protocol with the
Backblaze server yes
only with the software that they provide
is only over HTTP okay so with this
method let's say you use Debian you can
use any any communication protocol that
Debian yes Sky FS so and you can also
use there's a file system it's sort of
like a hybrid file system OS called SEF
that allows you to mount multiple
systems as a RAID storage
okay so multiple single board computers
with connected drives as raid right okay
so it's meant as a distributed system so
SEF can actually even sync data between
geographic locations like a raid Wow
so that's sort of the the concept we're
going with but we're talking about the
resent roughly per gigabyte my initial
calculations and that doesn't include
the case but I think the case might add
a tenth of a cent or something onto it
you're talking about you know dozens or
hundreds of terabytes
you know gigabytes very small yeah so
there's a lot of things to divide it
into right sure so this is gonna be
available next month first amazing to do
all that but a really cool thing about
it is not only well with with like a
Backblaze and I think a backways is a
great solution yeah especially for
companies like Netflix and other
companies that use that yeah but this
system will be I think an even better
solution for a lot of people because
it's not it has less points a single
points of failure because each pair of
drives has its own controller where a
Backblaze oh so if a controller fails
you only are down two drives right
what's the redundancy have you
calculated that like what's your fault
tolerance
well the SEF has lots of nines after the
99 for fault tolerance began it
automatically it automatically fixes
redundancy when redundancy is lost
so as long as there's enough resources
enough space right it will say well
let's say like in a raid five with three
drives yeah one drive fails you've lost
all your redundancy with Ceph what it
would do in that same exact situation
yeah is yeah three drives one fails it
now splits all the data with redundancy
on two drives so now you can fail
another drive still have redundancy oh
my as long as capacity right Wow
so okay but we're talking about 30
drives 45 drives something like that in
one rackmount unit
yeah there's a lot of redundancy there
yeah that sounds fantastic long as you
have enough capacity we're learning that
single board computers are not just for
makers anymore and we're seeing it even
more and more in the enterprise data
center we're gonna learn right after the
break what is happening as far as the
transition to the data center for single
board computers and how single board
computing can be used to save thousands
of dollars upfront hundreds of dollars
every single year on going and just
actual hard expenses like electricity
air conditioning cooling of the server
room and potentially millions of dollars
when it comes to things like data loss
mm-hmm stick around
[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV I'm joined by beau from a
mira droid hi and I hear that some of
the staff are actually sitting at the
office right now they're supposed to be
working yeah I'll give them a pass on
this one but I wanted to say thanks and
a big shout out to all of the employees
over at Romero droid and respect Tech
and basically were one big happy family
over there most of the time and there's
about close to 20 employees yeah Wow run
the show and that's the show but it's
nice to have them here yeah so it takes
a lot of people to to provide the level
of tech support and customer service
that we do right and to try to keep all
the products on the shelves yeah and the
products are supposed to be in boxes and
shipping places or and not going to the
wrong places or the wrong products going
through the wrong places so yeah that
all takes a lot of work yeah the
logistics saying I came back to work
well well done on yeah you're doing a
fantastic job and we have a lot of
respect for Ameritrade up here in Canada
how our single board computers saving
companies money I mean I alluded to it
at the end of the last segment talking
about the electricity bills and things
like that but I know that there's a lot
of money to be saved by transitioning
from traditional server infrastructure
to single board computers in the
enterprise right well single board
computers are getting to the point where
they are powerful enough to be used as a
desktop replacement like you showed last
week with of m3 and the Odroid h2 which
fits in this cool little nest box from
kks be very nice I don't have an h2
because they're so popular that by the
time they come in they're already all
sent I saw on Twitter
you've got boxes all stacked out at the
post office right that's because h2
showed up on Monday I left Friday so
yeah I missed the shipment by a weekend
but I would have snagged one but then
there would be some unhappy customer
somewhere because they'd have to wait
another week or so yeah for the next
batch to arrive but yes basically as
fast as they're coming in we're sending
them out but the h2 actually has a visa
mount you can mount it on the back you
can buy them on your mana back your
monitor as a desktop I have noticed a
lot of people just in general or there's
more talk about them shutting windows
and moving to linux okay
consumers and users right like you know
even businesses so the support costs I
think are coming down on Linux because
it's more mainstream now they used to be
right and Windows is increasing support
costs because we've seen so much like go
wrong with the update process and the
licensing process and you know any
number of things you know you want to
change the component in your system and
you have to re you know Reata it the
system basically a lot of times so so so
single board computers being used as a
desktop replacement right and which make
sense in business because it performed
really well for internet access and
using the office suite things like that
right most of the things that people use
now are not locked in like they used to
be like Google Docs can work on that's
it much anything yeah and I mean even
you know some single board computers run
Android and you can actually use Android
as a desktop system Wow
believe it or not yeah I actually do
that and I have a number of single board
computers on my desk with each attached
to their own monitor and I use synergy
to combine them all into one cohesive
system cool and it's synergy compatible
with Android synergy is yes really there
there is a it's not the most current
port but it's still compatible yeah you
just download the synergy app and
synergy lets you use just one keyboard
and mouse with as many computers as you
have connected and through the IP
network it lets you use control each one
right it seems like multiple desktops
basically or multiple monitors on a
single computer each one has its own
independent processing power the one big
thing that is hard to do is I mean you
can't drag a window from one to the yes
yeah you get used to that but actually I
I did put synergy I have a IP phone with
a big screen 7 inch screen on my desk
and I have synergy running on that
because it's running Android and I
actually can you do desktop stuff on my
phone sometimes I'll watch category 5 TV
while I'm doing other work yeah and
it'll be running on my phone that's
right and then if a call comes in it
switches to the phone interface yeah and
I hang up and it goes back to category 5
so in the server room what are we seeing
as far as the transition in hardware I
feel like there's still a little bit of
a hesitation in the c-suite especially
with ok well how can two hundred dollar
investment in a single board computer
option equate when I'm so used to
spending six thousand dollars on a 2-u
server mm-hmm well for companies that
are entrenched in Windows servers this
will not be a solution right okay yeah
yeah yeah but for companies that are
more agile and flexible you can save a
ton of money by going with a single
board computer solution and you're not
going to take you know a hundred and
eleven dollar or h2 and replace your
$6,000 server of course because it
doesn't have the storage it doesn't have
a number of other things but you can
hook it up to storage right so so it's
the price will be something less than
six thousand dollars sure but much
closer than to the hundred eleven
dollars then to the six thousand dollars
right I mean how many people have a 1u
server that's a couple grand right to do
file sharing and so annoys you that
nobody can work alongside it noise heat
electricity usage right and and then you
have to have a huge battery backup to
support or ooh yeah
a number of other things so you could
use a 3-volt lipo with most of these
right what I'd recommend is you know if
you get if you're gonna do this replace
your server with more than one single
board computer all right because that
way you can further segment the
responsibilities the server
responsibilities to Hardware where the
the previous trend or the the ongoing
trend has been to respect a huge server
that can run numerous hyper-v instances
or virtual machines yeah because
Microsoft said hey we're just joking
about Microsoft server being a system
that can run everything on one machine
unless used unless you segmented out
into hyper-v instances that you know one
does the domain controller and one does
exchange and one does you know this and
that the other thing so with a single
board computer you can do that and you
can have a second one that does the
exact same thing and it's mirrored or
redundancy it has redundancy so yeah at
worst the IT guy goes back moves it
Ethernet cable from one to the other or
disconnects one right yeah and it fails
over can I see one of these like the
rock 64 that you have there right for
example so so what starts to go through
my head as you're speaking like this bow
is let's say I've got a server with a
lot of hard drives in it that's my data
server and then I've got it and it's I
scuzzy right so just a scenario for you
so I scuzzy being the protocol that I
use from my other servers to connect to
it for storage and so the aiesec as a
unit provides all the redundancy
provides all the storage and the the
actual capacity of my network but then
I've got another one use server that
runs Samba right this can become my
Samba server right it has USB 3 if I
want to put an external drive on it but
it also has Gigabit Ethernet right so
now I'm connected to my I scuzzy from a
Debian Buster image here and if it
crashes how much is that this ranges
from $25 to $50 there you know how much
memory you also pull it out put in
another one you can have a couple in the
drawer that are already pre-configured
even in the rack because the data is not
there the data is on the ice Gussie
right and
EMM see as well so write this 1 ohm MMC
or microSD and you can actually
duplicate between the two so if he goes
down he has micro SD and vice versa
yeah but yeah what I was gonna say is at
Ameritrade pretty much everything that
we do runs on single board computers the
whole operation and we're pretty much
paperless that's cool so the the only
paper that we use is that little packing
slip you get oh yes and the label on the
box yeah so those are the only two paper
products other than the boxes themselves
yeah yeah that we use at Ameritrade
everything else is done digitally so the
the shippers use tablets to to run
through checking and double-checking
yeah that's time-stamped with our camera
system because our camera system is
built off of raspberry PI's this is a
case I designed for that we sold this on
our website
it's oh I love it both the smooth smooth
cam case are you selling these yes we do
so this is for the Raspberry Pi camera
that's a red berry pie camera that's and
are you ready loose toolless okay on the
back quarter inch right so that's a
regular camera mount yeah so you can
hook it up to anything on a well on a
wall mount while your surveillance
camera won't now we saw the wall mounts
for like next to nothing I think is like
brilliant less than five dollars for the
wall mount so all your cameras are
powered by all our cameras our raspberry
PI's so that makes them independent of
one another too so normally your DVR
goes down all of your cameras are down
right oh so the cameras send their data
they can send their data to more than
one server so so we have a I'd you three
and a 1u enclosure
yeah that has an external USB to hard
drive and it's only 100 megabit Ethernet
and it can handle 1080p 30 frames per
second cameras throughout our business
fantastic I don't like that but a
timestamps each segment that is that is
uh has motion in it so when the when the
shippers are doing the things on their
tablet
and they click I'm gonna start getting
the items collecting the items for this
order they'll click a button yeah it
looks like a bin because where they put
things in and and it automatically
timestamps or it automatically links to
all of the camera images are all the
camera videos for that time oh nice oh
well in the future if there's a problem
with an order we can just go to that
order click on the play button and see
all the cameras and then also watch the
person cross-checking it yeah the time
stamps out as well and then that receipt
has a barcode on it I don't you noticed
that but we have a Nvidia shield tablet
and they just hold that barcode
underneath the Nvidia shield and it
timestamps that's saying it's going into
the box so we can see every step of the
process without having to go search
through hours of footage yeah I try to
find it so it makes it super easy single
board computers are amazing if the
camera goes down it's like big deal
throw another one up there yeah you know
you can put a hundred cameras on one you
three you know which is you three being
another single board computer and it
came out and I think 2013 or 2014 yeah
so it's not like a brandy
it's got a hundred megabits a net and
USB - like I said yeah that's how it's
storing all this data because wonderful
when you have an h.264 stream it
compresses pretty well yeah and so
that's all the scanning sent over the
network
Wow there's amazing things you can do
single board computers and and so your
warehouses is utilizing these things
like crazy are there any are there any
big businesses that come to mind or
institutions that are using single board
computing in their infrastructure I
think we're still in the infancy but
there are companies especially in the
single board computer market that have
door yeah I've been proving that this is
a thing so Raspberry Pi there system for
the launch of the Raspberry Pi 4 and I
think that's the entire system runs on
Raspberry Pi 4 cluster hmm Wow pine 64
website blog right I Sorum all their
stuff runs on a cluster of rock 4 64's
yeah right
in Iraq yeah so the so the manufacturers
are utilizing their own hardware
finally really when it comes down to it
like they're finally at the point where
they feel like hey this can be our data
center you know if I'm moving it the
funny story is that when when heart
colonel came over to visit us where
after we started I showed them how we
were using single board computers yeah
as our infrastructure and he and there
were mostly Odroid products and he said
I'm not sure that I would trust our
products yet I'm like well why would you
have a problem trusting and when you
can't redundancy yeah you sure so if you
ever doesn't see any any fear you have
of losing data or things going down is
less lesser then if you have like a
single point of failure server you know
a motherboard like an hour server rack
where we do nanami right stuff yeah our
parent company they have you know huge
server racks with servers in them and
traditional they have to have additional
motherboards on hand how to replace
right yeah motherboard if it goes out
right because you can't have redundant
motherboards that's a lot of work to
like you've got to you have to rebuild
the entire tank versus having a drawer
full of pre-configured things that cost
a fraction of the price right now are we
at the point with you know being able to
use Singapore computers for enterprise
where somebody could walk in and say hey
here's it you know I hate to use the
term but like a sales pitch and go this
is what you do you know we've got a you
know we could use this Singapore
computer for this function this for this
and redo somebody's entire workplace
like are we at the point where we could
do that or is it still kind of piecing
it together it wouldn't be an
off-the-shelf solution right now yeah
fair enough right right so so a
consultant that is well versed in Linux
and and the necessary technologies that
the company is using if there's no you
know like if something that requires an
Active Directory from Windows right yeah
you're probably gonna want to keep a
Windows Server right it's just switched
out that way it is yeah yeah so but but
for most other companies you could say
here's what you do and here's an
equivalent system that runs on single
board computers for much less lower
power and you know we leave our single
board computers on all the time because
they they just take so little power yeah
maybe as as the c-suite watching this
and the the IT managers watching this
like hunt down within your organization
those who are creative makers and like
set aside some time every week and say
okay let's hear let's get you a couple
of little $50.00 micro single board
computers and see what you can come up
with right and you know a great way to
do this is to start with building a
small system and testing it and then
once you've done that migrate a
workgroup to it yeah and right yeah
that's basically what we did at a
marriage right is we started out with
with standard infrastructure and over
time we've migrated completely to single
board computers so our entire files our
file server is a Odroid xu4 running on a
cloud shell to system which is a custom
raid nest box yeah made by hard kernel
but it's it's a commodity unit you can
buy any of the components for it right
and so if anything goes wrong you just
pop out the $50 xu4 with it and put a
new one in it or you change out the
microSD or the MMC module or change out
the hard drives and you're back up and
running pretty simple but it's pretty
bulletproof very good yeah now I notice
you brought some stuff with you and
we've been kind of reaching over here
can we see some of the some of the
things that you've brought what you're
and how this is going to impact us in
the data center this one looks really
cool because it yeah this may or may not
be a a great solution for the data
center because of its design but what
this is a great solution for is any
company or institution that wants to
investigate cluster computing can I show
this to the to the folks at home what I
see here it looks like a sodium
but it has an a 64 brand on it and I see
also on the back I've got a microSD port
here so what's this this is the that's
the s opine module from pine 64 yeah and
this is the pine 64 cluster board okay
so this will take seven of these modules
so that chip that you have that looks
like a memory chip is the single board
computer that is a single board computer
okay
there is no HDMI or display output your
serial based this is meant to be run
headless but let's say you're developing
something that you want to run as a
clustered system and you don't invest
the thousands of dollars to to spec a
test system to okay test out your
software yeah yeah well you can do that
with this and they can determine what
are your needs you know how does how
does this performance compared to what
performance you need right right and it
was just announced I'm not really
announced but but the focus is inside
information not really it hasn't really
been announced but you're gonna be
hearing about this there was an
interview by I believe it was a tech
republic alright t LM the founder of
Pine 64 and he's TLM said that the rock
or the Esso rock module which is based
on the rock pro 64 I believe is going to
be available and it may or may not work
in this cluster board or we got a no
it's too early to know this yet but a
really cool thing about this cluster
board is you've got one Ethernet can
gigabit control or I believe this is
gigabit and then you've got these are
all its built-in switch so all of these
are connected via a switch to that one
gigabit port okay so they all have their
own MAC address and right okay and then
you've got both the barrel jack
connector or an ATX connector so you can
see Jake's power supply and it looks
like a standard micro ATX form factors
right so you can put that in a standard
case I believe so and then it has
full-size USB ports for each module and
micro SD our sorry market micro USB
ports for each rank module and GPIO for
each module as well as a share
holy cow SI saket there and i believe
this battery here is for is for saving
state if the system is power okay like
RTC but rock and i guess no yeah so this
board cost $99 and then each of them
each of the s Odom s opens cost 30 bucks
I think Wow so you can actually build a
really capable cluster for less than 200
bucks we have a lot of universities that
order these from us yeah because they're
doing a lot of cluster research yeah
right so they want to try different
algorithms out where that each of these
boards has a quad-core processor and 2
gigs of ram I believe and and so they
can they can run with 28 cores or
whatever it is so do i when I cluster
these on the cluster board am I gonna
get like 6 7 times the performance of a
single a 64 single board computer
independently yes you'll get seven times
the performance now the rest like if
you're doing a cluster application
that's you want to get seven times the
performance that's the goal
yeah okay the question is are you gonna
be able to get that right that depends
on your algorithm in your use case and
all those things so okay that's why
there they would want to use the system
like this is to tweak and optimize their
algorithms to operate over a multiple
system cluster right and if I didn't
want to take that advantage of the
cluster board increasing performance is
it possible I don't want to put all the
focus on this but this is really cool is
it possible to have seven a 64 s with a
64 being a very capable board on its own
right that's what Debian the plan book
uses yeah so put Debian on each of these
would they operate as independent Debian
machines so this would show up as seven
Debian installs on my network and each
one I can set up independently of one
another right and you can also run
Debian and Ubuntu and whatever flavors
on different models oh yeah whatever you
right so and you've got GPIO if you want
to try running your algorithm on
multiple systems at the same time you
can
so compiling across multiple different
distros and things like that would write
rate to do some benchmarks that is cool
anything else to show us today
I'm sure well on that on that line we
have the the Odroid MC one solo my cloud
right Mike laughs yeah
right so this is actually a a red-haired
stepchild because it accidentally had
sorry Jeff I'm not talking about you
Jeff because this is not supposed to
have the state of connector on it right
yeah that's actually the same board
that's used in the HTC One and the HTC -
yeah yeah so if you look it's it's the
same board right and in here it's
supposed to have the SATA connector
right okay but not in the MC one so I
use this one as a demo and it's kind of
fun because it's not very often that you
get a fluke yeah yeah but you can stack
as many of these as you want on top of
each other and we actually installed
tensorflow on it as a cluster you do to
do object recognition
yeah and yeah yeah other other things so
it will operate AI tensorflow is yeah
test flow is an AI algorithm by Google
yeah so is there an advantage over that
versus like the Jetson or the the X you
the vim three which have the well those
have an integrated actual AI silicon
this does this does not this does not
right so those would perform faster for
those for for the software I'm just
getting my head around the right yeah
but this can be used for any number of
different things same the same as the s
opine yeah right
and so you can stack you know multiples
of these and have you'd have like a
whole towers I believe
a cryptocurrency miner out of a bunch of
these just because they can different
types of cryptocurrency mining or
cryptocurrency proof algorithms and one
of them is called proof of stake time or
proof of there's proof of work time and
a third one well only one of them uses a
ton of CPU and that's the one that
Bitcoin uses right the other ones
use either a lot of memory or or other
other things and because these have two
gigabytes of RAM and I'm each oh they
have memory they don't need the
Tennessee for you so they're great for
mining certain coins now cool and I
think heart kernel used it to mine
varium so yeah that's that's how
interesting and then you mentioned the
Jetson which we also sell so this is
this is a the Jetson nano developer kit
that carries an Nvidia right this is the
Nvidia it's got Wow a whole lot of CUDA
cores I forget how many on a single
board come on board - Wow so you've seen
you probably see a lot of these running
I want to line on that I don't know
about mining because it's still using
arm CPUs but the it's the GPU cores that
are really the that's it if you don't
tap into those right and so you'll see
this running a lot of autonomous robots
okay right for for there's gonna be able
to process in real-time video or bump
detection right the object orientation
yeah this is for a USB 3 port right and
so you can attach a lot of high
throughput devices to it yeah cool so I
mean point in case there there is such a
plethora of of different types of single
board computers for all kinds of uses
you showed me a little tiny one as well
and like speaking of like can you think
of a use case for something like that
so so this the most the the biggest
component on on this is the Ethernet
port which is base
the whole thing if you look yeah about
80 percent or 75 percent of the volume
of this is the ethernet port yeah the
actual computer is just this top one
inch square okay postage stamp-sized
what's this one this is called a vote
court - it comes in a light a standard
and ultimate this is the ultimate mode
the light and the standard are just the
top piece and so you okay
you can connect you want that Ethernet
okay yeah yeah there's micro SD
controller there's USB UART
Ethernet a lot of different you know a
lot of different GPIO is on here
that's nuts so and it's got built-in
Wi-Fi and it has built-in storage it's
not a ton of storage but it has a built
in OS based on Linux so again it's just
like what is your new server so a
built-in web server so this is this
actually comes the ships with open wrt
on it so it's a router yes so actually
is one of these in the Amero bus and i
have a they actually make something
called a evoke am for this that okay
1080p camera
Oh neat and so this basically becomes
this and that little camera yeah which
you could just mount anywhere on here so
basically have a camera that's about 2
inches square yeah or 2 square inches I
should say okay yeah are two cubic
inches I don't know why everything is in
heat up here two cubic inches and I
won't I won't convert that to
centimeters for how many how many
decimal places of a foot so anyway that
turns it into a Wi-Fi camera and so
we're having a make maker meeting the
other day and we're upstairs and
downstairs the door was locked because
it's also a business yeah and some
people come late so I had this running
in America's pointing at the door and
upstairs on my phone I had a streaming
okay yeah just connected directly to
this because I didn't have Wi-Fi in the
maker space at the time so brilliant so
anyway I could I could see when somebody
was coming to the door and
to be done to unlock it like you do
crazy things with these I can't believe
that something that small has now become
a computer yeah I mean you go back to
the days of what was a World War two and
they took up massive room with spam yeah
it's like that's more powerful this you
can make it like a automated garage door
opener or
with a camera but you'd of course set it
up for voice activation and everything
else and network connectivity for Amazon
echo and they also sell a USB display
that we also saw let's call the vote
display it's it's 4.3 inches 800 480
yeah so it's it's like cell phone
quality screen fantastic and so you can
like build a little mini system out of
this and Wow
it starts at $12.95 oh my goodness this
particular one's about 45 so do you see
what I'm saying like find that person
within your organization who can like
tinker with this stuff it's such a small
investment but such a huge savings if
when you get to that point and I think
we're seeing that like software is
coming out that is ready to deploy we're
seeing things like piehole is a great
event a great example of a DNS server
that operates not only as a DNS server
but as a filtering list subscription
service like by9 DNS blocking and and
things like that based on list so well
so official pie hole device yeah but you
could put it on any one of these things
right and and it's just an example of a
piece of software that hey if you want
to take a look at that you can deploy it
on any single board computer tried in
your organization a school would do very
well with something like a pie hole
which is would be able to filter things
like pornographic websites and block
advertising and everything else within
the organ within the building that's
very customizable yeah you can tell what
you want to block and what you don't
want to block so we're starting to see
those types of programs that are
available for free to download and you
just get an SBC and once you've deployed
it you're ready to go right yeah it's
fantastic
so there's yeah this is what's running
the if you go onto pine 64 dot org most
of what you see there is running off of
these
they're little servers that just that's
their server in Iraq bow you're in the
industry just as we kind of wrap up our
discussion today so you you see the
evolution of this more than any of us
because by the time it gets to us it's
at the consumer level where is single
board computing going like what are we
going to see this year that that is
really getting you excited well a few
things I'm saying that are really
exciting me right now our devices like
the pine Book Pro this is a pine yeah
the pine book pro is coming out and
that's going to be the pine book is fine
for light computing right but now we're
looking this is the board again right so
that's what's the pine Book Pro is going
to be running off of right there Rock
pro 64 basically a modified version of
that board and that will be able to run
chromium I was basically a Chromebook
you know it runs Android it also runs
various flavors of Linux whenever you
want so if you want a Linux laptop yeah
you should be able to get it for
somewhere around $200 with you know
well-appointed actually with a with a
alloy case and yeah yeah emmc storage
camera 1080p screen long battery life
right you know a lot of different
options and a great thing about that is
it's not gonna have any of the bloatware
on it we have so first of all it's not
running Windows it's running Linux you
know you can be assured about your
privacy and what that's another thing
that you were mentioning about where
single board computers going I think in
general a lot of single board computers
are embracing the privacy issues that
people are feeling when their data is
getting mishandled by cloud computing
companies yeah or or like the the big
players in tech like Google or Microsoft
or Amazon or whoever it may be so they
allow you to take back control of your
data for instance I have
of our photos stored on an ode read you
three with a heart attached hard drive
at home yeah and I can at I can I wrote
a little web server for that mhm that
web website actually that allows me to
log in and we could pull up any pictures
from anywhere you know of our whole you
know our whole archive of photos that
takes up you know hundreds or bytes yeah
so I don't have it on a cloud somewhere
yeah it's our own personal yeah and so
I've got full control over that yeah and
I think that that triads being
translated as like the folks like pine
sixty-four they're listening to that
need they're listening and hearing the
community saying we really want these
privacy features and you mentioned the
pine Book Pro which Lukasz had just
announced that they are actually going
to be putting tactile switch is that
right on a hardware level will disable
Wi-Fi Bluetooth and and add that
additional layer of protection turn off
your web you won't have to stick
band-aid over your webcam anymore right
you can actually physically turn it off
right so that but they're listening and
and they're making these changes to what
is an open platform and and redesigning
based on user requests and right yeah
and the putting on keyboards that are
ANSI compatible right that kind of stuff
another thing about the a 64 here is
it's also going to be it's the backbone
of the pine phone that they're coming
out with right probably the fourth
quarter of this year
yeah and again it's a privacy centric
Linux smartphone whatever switches on
there too really a hard thing to find
nowadays is you know there there have
been a few people who have attempted
Linux smartphones yeah and I think Libre
is one of the the current frontrunner
there but they're still not available I
think there's a lot more expensive yeah
so you'll be able to get your feet wet
with the Linux privacy smartphone yeah
for some probably somewhere around $150
wonderful and it may not be your daily
phone that you use for everything but it
may be you know there it might be the
next generation is your daily phone
depends on how into Angry Birds you are
[Laughter]
there there are gonna be some issues you
know because you're not gonna be able to
easily play android games yet on it yeah
that's funny balls yeah
discord yeah a fully secure phone yeah
this is a great option and I'm really
excited to see it
you know six-inch screen yeah a high
resolution screen and nicely expect so
it it's not going to be as fast as your
Samsung or your iPhone but a lot you can
be a lot cheaper and a lot more private
yeah it's open source like right you can
download the OS for it the one that you
want one can modify it customize it the
way it was of OSS and development like
love it post market and sailfish and
loon and yeah just a bunch of different
ones yeah and it's gonna continue to
grow well we've been speaking with both
from a merit dried check them out Emira
droid comm we and suddently have a
coupon code if you want to support us
and let them know that their their visit
here was was noticed use cat v TV
supporter is the coupon code to use and
that will i guess you guys have throw a
little bit of money right yeah it gives
you it gives the customer a dollar off
which is not a whole lot but but the the
main goal is to get Robbie money a you
need to buy a new wig a more significant
portion of the sale goes to Robbie to
category five don't take a commission
your volunteers yeah yeah but funding
category five technology TV and and the
expenses that we have here so what do
you think of the place I mean this your
first time here in Barry you're in our
studio if this is a rare privilege to
have a guest in the studio Marsh man
came up and joined us I've seen you you
know watch your life so every chance I
get
and and then I watch the recorded show
when I don't get the chance to learn
yeah and sometimes I get to watch parts
of each because I come late but you you
sold the studio as being small and and
it's not really that small I know I
think it's well-appointed yes we've
tried to utilize the space as well as
possible that's for sure that's very
nice well it's nice to have you here
thank you both for for being here
rosemary is in our
today and it's great having you up here
with us and thanks for sharing your
knowledge and remember check out am
aerodrome anytime you want to purchase
an SBC they're the best place to go and
use that cat5 TV supporter coupon code
in order to help support the show as
well so thanks for being here thank you
we do have to head over to the newsroom
we're just going to fade to black and
transition ourselves and throw it over
to Sasha here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom British Airways is facing a
record fine of 183 million pounds nearly
230 million u.s. dollars for last year's
for each of its security systems you'll
be able to pre-order the hotly
anticipated $199 a pine book pro this
month researchers from the Microsoft
Defender advanced threat protection
research team have issued a warning to
confirm that a notorious credential
stealing malware threat is targeting
Windows users and the Raspberry Pi 4
announced two weeks ago is the Raspberry
Pi foundation's first-ever USB C device
and well they made a pretty hefty
mistake as it turns out the PI 4 has a
non-compliant USB C charging port and
doesn't work with many charger as many
chargers as it should these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top
Linux bias I'm Sasha Rickman and here
the top stories are following this week
British Airways is facing a record fine
of 183 million pounds nearly 230 million
dollars u.s. for last year's breach of
its security systems the airline owned
by AIG said it's surprised and
disappointed by the penalty from the
Information Commissioner's Office or the
ICL at the time British Airways said
hackers had carried out a sophisticated
malicious criminal attack on its website
the ICO said the incident took place
after users of British Airways website
was diverted to a fraudulent site
through this full site details of about
500,000 customers were harvested by the
attackers the ICO said information
commissioner Elizabeth Denham said quote
people's personal data is just that
personal when an organization fails to
protect it from lost damage or theft it
is more than an inconvenience she goes
on to say that's why the law is clear
when you are entrusted with someone's
personal data you must look after it
those that don't will face scrutiny from
my office to check that they've taken
appropriate steps to protect fundamental
privacy rights and quote the ICO said
that this is the biggest penalty that is
ever handed out and the first to be made
public under the new rules Wow
Jeff I feel like they're making an
example just a little like that's a
massive fine yeah and I mean you look at
all the other data breaches that there's
been like I don't maybe I'm missing
something this story but I don't
understand how you can hit that kind of
fine for that data breach but let the
others slide no man I think it's new
regulations well yeah and that's what it
like this is the first under those new
regs right to to be charged now some of
the other massive data breaches they
were on American soil where they know
there's a lot of them okay you saw me
that might be part of it is
graphical boundaries I mean that's a
massive hit it guaranteed somebody
there's gonna go let's make sure we do
things properly next time yeah well
everybody I think is gonna have your
eyes open now right well companies need
to be wise to data privacy concerns and
these days it's it's not it's not
optional any more like people right I
talked about ransomware and things like
that a fair bit what we don't
necessarily realize is if we have remote
desktop open and somebody compromises
that with a brute-force attack yes
ransomware is one method that they can
use to exploit your systems because they
get in there and they can encrypt your
data but sometimes data theft is part of
that sometimes a combination of the two
maybe download a couple of gigabytes
worth of data and then encrypt your
files you don't really know what they're
up to if you're not meticulously
watching which you're not because you've
got RDP open as an example right so so I
say like you've got to be as a business
you've got to be more mindful these days
that ransomware and data theft is a real
thing that's why we use Kingston DT mm
yeah the encrypted USB flash drives
that's why we we don't have our DP open
on our networks we use something such as
connect wise in its place so we can
still remote into our computers from our
home but something like connect wise
using that as the example because they
force two-factor authentication so when
I sign up for my account and I set up
remote access to my computer well nobody
else can gain access to that unless
they've got what your phone
Robbie's phone yeah they're not gonna be
able to access my computers well exactly
and I mean when I think about these
fines I you know I kind of equated a
little bit too like the hands-free
driving law that we have here in Ontario
like at first it was like I think a $50
fine yeah and it didn't work and so the
legislation kept changing upping it up
and upping it and now it's like three
points for the death penalty like its
massive but the sad thing is it's not
still not a deterrent yeah
people that I see still using their
phones while driving and I'm just like
what do they have to do like do you need
to lose your license for six months and
so I'm hoping with all these data
breaches we've been seeing that a huge
fine like this is going to cause
companies to go we have to take this
serious yes and and to avoid that we're
gonna put the extra steps in place to
make sure we're not one of those
companies that ends up on them it's such
an interesting comparison that you've
created there because now I think ok
well how many of us have heard about a
death because somebody was talking was
tight texting on their phone while
driving on the highway yeah and yet you
still continue to do it right it's how
many how many of us have heard of data
breaches and ransomware attacks and yet
we still continue to have lack security
practices yeah I think that the fines
need to start going up and up and
especially if you're a repeat you know
person who's been in it so like like
because we've cover a couple stories now
where people hit a couple times and it's
like oh yeah first I'm like yeah you're
fine let's go through the roof and I
think it needs to be quite heavy and
here you go so based on that if you get
hit by ransomware you bankrupt if you
get hit by data theft you bankrupt by
the government that's all you'll be able
to pre-order the hotly-anticipated $199
pine book Pro this month pine 60 for the
US based company behind a growing range
of armed powerlinux devices said pine
book pre-orders will go live July 25th
2019 pine 64 is 14 point one inch laptop
will now include privacy switches to
disable the internal Bluetooth and Wi-Fi
module the webcam and the built-in
microphone all at heart at the hardware
level this is achieved using a special
keyboard firmware which is not part of
the main OS that cuts power to the
relevant module when a specific short
keyboard shortcut key combo is pressed
pine 64 will give pre-order priority to
members of the their forum who
registered before July 1st
these members can also benefit from a
limited-time storage upgrade of 126 gig
gigabytes 128 clear a 2 extra gigabytes
o versus the 64 gigabyte emmc on it on
offer in the regular retail version this
is so exciting like we're talking about
a single board computer powered
reasonable daily driver laptop yeah yeah
what I'm excited about this I didn't
realize the July first one though oh so
I'm sitting there going
Oh for signing up to that yeah so you'll
be thanking your lucky stars if you
listen to us and signed up for their
forum way back you're gonna be waiting I
love that they are like it's favoring
their community and favoring those who
are already a part of their community
and you know those who are not you
you're like kicking yourself and going
oh no sign up and are you part of that
community and that's the guy who sits
like outside a record store 30 years ago
for 12 hours waiting for the new CD
release and everybody was like now you
can just get it off of Amazon before it
comes out yeah for like that is it's
gonna be like earth-shattering because
okay the pine book really showed me that
that a cheap and and cheap as in like
very ultra affordable laptop can be made
using this new technique that is
utilizing single board computers now
they're taking that to the next level so
what was the a 64 based pine book and
now is becoming like the pine book pro
which is the rock pro 64 main board so
it's faster it's got more memory it's
got more power it's got it's really
gonna feel like a proper laptop and
Linux can go on there you've got Android
you've got all kinds of stuff yeah I'm
really excited it's gonna be awesome let
us know if you get one and make sure you
post below what you are going to be
using yours for I think this could be my
daily driver
I don't do gaming I just program a lot
great and I use the internet I use like
things like
Google Drive I used Gmail for my email
so like as long as I've got access to
coding Internet I'm surfing that kind of
stuff yeah well like re are all the
sudden is home-schooled yeah and I'm
thinking this would be great for him for
his school laptop sure like awesome
they're stunning too incidentally
they're stunning super excited mm-hmm
researchers from the Microsoft Defender
advanced threat protection research team
have issued a warning to confirm that a
notorious credential stealing malware
threat is targeting Windows users what
makes this one so dangerous is that it
it uses an invisible man methodology by
only running files within the attack
chain that are legitimate systems tools
and so it hides in plain sight the
Ashtaroth trojan can employ many
techniques including key logging and
clipboard monitoring to steal login
credentials however it is the way that
it exploits living off the land binaries
or LOL bins that has created a certain
level of infamy for the malware in the
case of the threat campaign that the
newly published Microsoft report
confirms it was the windows management
instrumentation command line or wmic
that was the lol been in question and
really a part of the Microsoft Defender
ATP research team and author of the
report notes that the victim still has
to click on a malicious link in an email
to initiate the attack chain via a file
that runs an opposite office gated batch
file will help you without obfuscate I
can say it in practice this batch file
in turn runs the legitimate WM IC system
tool in such a way that an office for
scaredy nine post JavaScript file runs
automatically with this one the
background intelligent transfer service
admin tool is used to download payloads
loi explained that these kinds of file
list attacks run the malicious payloads
quote directly
in memory of leverage on on leverage
legitimate systems tools to run
malicious code without having to drop
executable files on the desk and poke
you like Salim a security researcher at
cyber reason who uncovered another
Astaroth attack earlier this year says
that these attacks are considered
challenging to detect as the full
process of the deployment and execution
of the malware is by way of those
windows LOL bans he says quote to the
average person this activity can seem
like a legitimate Windows activity
because it's being executed by Windows
processes end quote
that's the scary thing is we've trust
these tasks yes and so we think that
it's safe well and I mean I think of the
average computer user I mean you've got
you know take for instance my parents
who didn't grow up in the computer age
and so you know I get a phone call on
the computers making a funny noise what
do I do
right what does that mean you know so
where do I insert the Bitcoin well yeah
like they trust Windows and so something
like this they're not gonna have any
clue and next thing you know their
systems compromised and they're not
gonna know and it's an email attachment
that comes in right yeah I mean that's
one way that it can infiltrate the
system so if that email attachment is
clicked by anyone on your network be it
a business or home then you're
compromised yep and who knows what the
payload is that's the and you think
about okay well a small payload like
keylogging how many of us ever put our
credit card number into the clipboard or
confidential information maybe we copy
something to the clipboard to paste it
into a website to log into actually yeah
but a lot of us use the clipboard like
copy and paste two for a password or
something like that I'm notorious for it
maybe I need to be a little more wary of
it now thinking about these key loggers
yeah because what do I do
I don't have LastPass installed on a
public computer right but I can log into
LastPass using a private window copy my
password and
paste it to get into a site but now I'm
thinking maybe that's really bad
practice because I don't know if
somebody previously had clicked on one
of those key loggers right on any
computer could be any computer that's
who knows where the information is going
now
sorry to scare you folks do you have
different news for us something a little
less ominous than somebody hacking our
networks right exactly the Raspberry Pi
4 announced two weeks ago is the
Raspberry Pi foundation's first-ever
USBC device and well they made a pretty
hefty mistake as it turns out the PI 4
has a non compliant USB C charging port
and doesn't work with as many chargers
as it should thanks to the open nature
of Raspberry Pi even the schematics are
online Tyler Ward was able to discover
that Raspberry Pi didn't design the USB
C port correctly to see C pins on a USB
C port are supposed to each get their
own 5.1 k/o HMS resistor but Raspberry
Pi came up with its own circuit design
that allows them to share a single
resistor this is not a compliant design
and breaks compatibility with some of
the more powerful USB C chargers out
there whether USB C charger works with
the with the PI 4 has to do with whether
it uses an e marked cable Emaar cables
are full-featured USB C cables with
chips inside the negociate power
management accessory modes data rates
and other communication specs cool stuff
right but since the PI 4 is USB C port
is wired incorrectly these smart cables
will detect it as an audio adapter
accessory and refused to charge them
Benten looing an engineer at Google and
one of the Internet's foremost USB C
implementation experts said quote into
instead of trying to come up with some
clever circuit hardware designers should
simply copy the figure from the USB C
specs exactly this isn't simply a rough
guideline of the way of the way of one
we'll make a USBC receptacle it's
actually a normative meaning mandatory
requiring required by the spec in order
to call your system a compliant USBC
powersync just copy it and quote
raspberry pi co-founder even Upton
admits the issue saying quote I expect
this will be fixed in a future board
revision but for now users will need to
apply one of the suggested workarounds
it's surprising this didn't show up in
our quite extensive field testing
program unquote these suggested
workarounds are just to use a non e
marked cable like the official PI 4
charger the PI 4 is not the first
high-profile device to get the USBC spec
wrong the Nintendo switch also has a non
compliant USB C port and has had issues
with certain USB C cables as a result
it's unfortunate my kids would say oh I
am confused why what one would want to
mess with it if it is designed in a way
that works well the USB C spec I mean if
they wanted to use a single 5.1 ohm
resistor instead of two but that's just
a they're just as was sad like it's
they're trying to physic manipulate to
make it if it's a penny like how much is
a 5 point 1 ohm resistor 2 pennies like
I feel like that's a weird choice to
make right but in hindsight I think that
there also I mean I I feel like a
certain amount of sympathy for the
creators sure in this because I've
released products and made mistakes
right and as was said even said that
well we can't believe that this didn't
show up in our testing like we tested
this we sent this out to testers and but
probably each of them used the Raspberry
Pi provided charger right not everyone
looked there
it didn't take long right it probably
took that first person who plugged it
into the charger that they bought you
know they bought an expensive charger
that because it's got more power and
it's got that that special cable and
that was the first person to realize oh
something's not right here and so now
we're gonna look at well what's the
problem right why isn't it working but I
mean like stuff like that it's gonna
happen I mean such as life yeah I mean
at the end of the day is it really gonna
make a massive difference to the average
user probably not I think because you
can just switch cables you'll be okay
right
right you can move on yeah and I think
what what we see here too is that and
and time will tell but I suspect that
it's only gonna take a very short amount
of time I mean they'll sell out of the
first-run right they'll correct it in
the next run and it won't take long for
the the next revision of the Raspberry
Pi 4 to come out with the correction
yeah and then problem solved exactly and
then the first one will be like a
collector's item it's like that it's
like you're my cloud there with the SATA
ports it's special yeah great yeah
exactly
all right well I'm gonna jump right into
the cryptocurrency report just want to
look at how the crypto market has been
responding over the past week and this
these numbers are based on what I found
at about 1800 hours Eastern Time on
Wednesday July 10th 2019 so in the past
seven days Bitcoin still gained now
today it's down a little bit versus like
previous days but since last week were
up $539 us so we're sitting at eleven
thousand nine hundred and thirty dollars
and two cents Facebook Libre still
sitting at a whopping zero dollars
doesn't exist yet but we are monitoring
it when it comes out yeah it's volatile
if you're gonna invest invest in Libre
it will cost you nothing
litecoin I'll take a billion on litecoin
is down losing $10.83 u.s. at 1:07 75
aetherium is at 2 8949 another loser
going down 4.77 set four dollars and
seventy seven cents i should say and
mineiro is gaining a little bit I'm
gaining are you ready for this six
dollars and sixty six cents Manero is
the mark of the beast ninety-four
dollars and seventy eight cents ICICI US
dollar value this week torque which was
previously known as stellite gaining
just a little bit 0.06 ten thousandth of
a cent and turtle coin up to one point
two to ten thousandths of a cent
remember if you are going to mine invest
in cryptocurrency in any way shape or
form the market is always volatile it
never closes you never know what's gonna
happen next only invest what you can
afford to lose big thanks to Roy W Nash
in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson
yeah I'm Jeff Weston we've got to take a
really quick break stick around
technology TV it's been episode number
616 and up there it's been fabulous
having beau here from a marriage Roy and
his wife rosemary thank you so much for
joining us here in the studio and I hope
you all enjoyed the show I want to also
say thank you to everyone who has
supported us on patreon this week or
through any means whether you're
shopping through our partner links or if
you are actually supporting us on
patreon you can find out more about that
process which is very very simple and
you just give as little as one dollar a
month to our free broadcast to support
us you can do so at patreon.com slash
category 5 category 5 TV is on Twitter
you'll find us at category 5 TV or me
personally I am at Robbie Ferguson and
incidentally I follow back so if you'd
like to increase your followers by one
and perhaps see a couple of likes on
your timeline by the world-famous
webcast or Robbie Ferguson I feel like
oh you're on Twitter I feel like you're
promising to the world yeah I follow
back yes I fell onto Twitter yes I
follow back Jeff yeah I don't follow you
on twitter
you guys follow me how will you see all
those tweets I tweet about you we're on
YouTube you can guess that we would be
there category 5 TV just do a quick
search for us or you can find our edited
down clips Linux tech show.com make sure
you subscribe to both of those to get
our notifications
we're also on the roku channel store and
you can get us on Plex or Kodi via
github comm slash cat 5 TV check out the
repositories there and of course our
main website ties everything together
you'll find that at category 5 dot TV
thank you for being here everybody thank
you both for being here
Sasha great job with the b-roll so all
the handheld
shots that you saw tonight well that was
Sasha how's your arm feeling yeah good
those those studio cameras are pretty
okay yeah just wait till you see what
I've done
yeah watch this back after a shot of the
floor it's just satin shoes well I thank
you for being a trooper have a wonderful
week everybody see you next week bye
[Applause]
