here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom it's
decided Facebook will be fined a
whopping five billion dollars over the
Cambridge analytical scandal the fully
interactive a Doctor Who VR game the
edge of time is arriving in September an
artificial intelligence system created
by researchers at the University of
California has solved the Rubik's Cube
in just over a second and Intel has
unveiled its new AI system Hawaii Beach
it's a neuromorphic computer capable of
simulating eight million neurons these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories is a linux by us i'm sasha
Rickman and he read the top stories were
following this week it's decided
Facebook will be fined a whopping 5
billion dollars over the Cambridge
analytic a scandal the Consumer
Protection Agency in the US the Federal
Trade Commission FTC began investigating
Facebook in March of 2018 following
reports that Cambridge analytic ah had
accessed the data of tens of millions of
its users as it turns out the if the
political consultancy firm was able to
improperly obtain the data of up to 87
million Facebook users the investigation
focused on whether Facebook had violated
a 2011 agreement in which it was
required to clearly notify users and
gain express consent to share their data
in a three-to-two vote the record 5
billion dollar settlement was approved
by the FTC the fine still needs to be
finalized by the Justice Department's
Civil Division and it is unclear how
long this may take if confirmed it would
be the largest fine ever levied by the
FTC on a tech company Facebook had been
expecting this it told investors back in
April that it had put aside most of the
money which means that it the firm won't
feel much added financial strain from
this penalty what we don't know yet is
what additional measures may be placed
on the company such as increased privacy
oversight or
if there will be any personal
repercussions for the company's chief
executive Mark Zuckerberg the settlement
which amounts to about one-quarter of
the company's yearly profit will
reignite criticism from those who say
that the fine isn't much more than a
slap on the wrist
hmm five billion dollars is not a slap
on the wrist feels a bit a little larger
$2.00 is a big fine
it is yeah I don't think I don't think
that they're going to ignore the fine
right but continue they've already put
most of that money away we can that's
not say had access to most Oh money take
that out of our surplus right you want
to make it hurt you go beyond that quite
frankly I do think it was a slap on the
wrist and I was reading an article that
there was a jump in shares after the
fine was announced mm-hmm why I have no
clue but the jump in shares almost
produces same amount of money that they
were fined Wow people are in love so
it's like Oh Papa bloody good on
Facebook oh we just made the money back
like Timmy that's stupid
from a legal standpoint like what if
they accomplished that's what you're
saying yeah they've accomplished nothing
virtually right what are they gonna do
that five billion dollars it's gonna go
into the federal coffers hmm what I want
to know is is this gonna produce
lawsuits like is somebody gonna say I'm
suing you now Facebook you've been found
to be an illusion those victims yeah I
was victim and my life has been impacted
because now I see these advertisements
that I never wanted to see before I want
ten million dollars but I mean I could
see a class-action suit coming out of
this hmm I mean is it gonna mount too
much probably not but right I I just
quite frankly with all the money that
Facebook makes and all of the intrusive
nature that they have built their
company around I think five million or
five million is a joke what would you
set it at I would have put it out around
fifteen
I'd I would not fight $15,000,000,000
yeah too much but the other thing is I
think this is a settlement I don't think
it was a straight-up fine I think they
cut a backroom deal so they knew what
was coming it's dealt one positive 1/4
of the annual earnings if I had to spend
one quarter of my earnings on a fine
I would be eating mr. noodles I think
we're in a different tax bracket like
think about it that fine is 1/4 of their
yearly revenue purely from selling your
personal data that's what they do
yes I am defending Facebook remember I
am NOT even on Facebook anymore that's
how saddened I was by all of this
privacy breach yeah and I don't think
Zuckerberg is out the window they're not
gonna touch him no I'll tell you what
like as a user as a programmer the whole
Cambridge analytical thing what does it
meant to me is strictly frustration to
the point where I've cancelled all
Facebook services within my company
right like I no longer provide Facebook
services to our customers I had somebody
even messaged me asking me to set up an
Instagram profile and I said go
elsewhere I'm not gonna do it I'm not
I'm not dealing with that company
anymore see here's the thing that
bothers me a little bit about the story
and I know we got to move on to number
one you look at when Elon Musk made his
tweet about cutting some deal overseas
or something that never came true and
suddenly he had from the trades
Commission had a year of sanctions for
Twitter and he had somebody like an
ethical person follow him and like yeah
like there was a lawyer attached to it
so like there was this big deal mm-hmm
whereas Facebook releases millions of
people's personal information and they
go pay us some money
mm-hmm like where is the impact on the
company yeah I think there should be a
whole lot more that comes with it I
think the impact on the company is
companies saying I'm not dealing with
Facebook anymore but look I'm not buying
advertising space on Facebook now I'm we
have a facebook profile a Facebook page
for category 5 TV because there are a
lot of
and so we want it to be accessible to
you but personally I don't use it and I
don't support it like that's what it
seems that blew up again this week
mm-hmm and all the personal data that's
being taken from that people just don't
care like the public doesn't care but I
realize it's a broad strip yeah I don't
like to generalize and I apologize for
the generalization because you may be
saying no I do care I absolutely care
I've cancelled my account or maybe I
didn't even sign up for one cuz I didn't
agree with their Terms of Service but
the fact remains like where we are in a
different era now than we were ten years
ago now the types of data data thievery
that are happening in things like social
media didn't exist ten years ago and so
the law has to catch up we know that
like there's so many different we could
talk about MP double-a we could talk
about oh yeah like all these things and
and they haven't caught up yet and maybe
it's just one step at least maybe it's
not about Facebook maybe it's not going
to dent them but maybe it's going to
protect users from the next big breach
because the next big H is still on the
up-and-up hopefully we don't really know
big-picture stuff
the fully interactive doctor who VR game
the edge of time is arriving in
September the doctor has been hurled
through time to the end of the universe
a virus that threatens to rip apart
reality itself has been unleashed
players can pilot the TARDIS on a
journey across the worlds both familiar
and strange to recover a series of
powerful time crystals that can repair
space-time and ultimately save the
universe itself following the recent
reveal of the animated VR experience
Doctor Who the runaway a new cinematic
feature-length Doctor Who VR video game
is coming this September
published by play stack and developed by
maze theory Doctor Who at the edge of
time will transport fans into a globally
beloved world of aliens mystery and
Wonder letting them embark on a
brand-new and fully interactive
adventure inspired by the show's 55 year
history and starring the doctors current
incarnation played by Jody
Whitaker armed with the iconic sonic
screwdriver plan players will solve
mind-bending puzzles grapple with
classic monsters and encounter new
horizons in a quest to find the doctor
and defeat a powerful force that
threatens to destroy the fabric of
reality they will face the infamous that
Daleks felix Daleks yeah Dalek we have
one here on the set an either known
faces from the doctors universe plus
some brand new never before seen
monsters as they travel through stunning
cinematic environments that truly bring
the show to life okay so first of all
that's a dollar like yeah I am waiting
exterminate actor okay so my kids are
going to be thrilled about this I'm
thrilled about this first of all the
storyline sounds like my day-to-day life
it sounds pretty cool yeah these days
they can do so much and the Jodie
Whittaker is in fact involved in the
actual game it's gonna be a lot of fun
for Jodie Whittaker fans and enter the
eleventh Doctor fans as well so this is
great yes and we've got also the Orville
interactive fan experience which is
coming to steam within the next couple
of weeks like the the coming soon is
already on Steam so do a search for the
Orville so we're looking at like some of
the great sci-fi shows right now are
going to be playable VR games yes that's
cool it's very cool so looking forward
to this one - Thank You Sasha you're not
VR an artificial intelligence system
created by researchers at the University
of California has solved the Rubik's
Cube in just over a second deep cube a
is algorithm was called completed the 3d
logic puzzle which has been taxing
humans since it was invented in 1974
professor Pierre Baldy who authored the
report in nature machine intelligence
said quote it learnt on its own the
researchers noted that its strategy was
very different from the way humans
tackled the puzzle professor Baldy
says my best guess is that the a is form
of reasoning is completely different
from a human's unquote the computer
algorithm is not the first or the
fastest non human to solve the puzzle
that honor goes to a system devised at
the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology dubbed the min two-phase
algorithm which solved the puzzle three
times faster but that system did not use
a neural network which mimics how the
human brain works or machine learning
techniques by contrast it was programmed
specifically to solve the puzzle
creating a system that teaches itself to
complete the challenge is seen as the
first step toward creating an AI that
can move beyond games to solve
real-world problems
professor of baldies says quote the
solution to the Rubik's Cube involves
symbolic mathematical and abstract
thinking so a deep learning machine that
can crack such a puzzle is getting
closer to becoming a system that can
think reason plan and make decisions end
quote
this sounds awesome this is an
interesting story
I get the rationale behind using it to
learn to solve a Rubik's Cube but the
Rubik's Cube has been solved like you go
online and you can it's like do this do
this and there's a sequence you follow
how I can do it yeah how many seconds
for this machine right no I get that
but it's so it's interesting way it's
interesting yeah life finds a way it's
an interesting way of of how they've
used it but at the same time I'm going
pick something that isn't is solved
excuse missing the point
they need to prove how fast it can solve
some things by testing it against
something but also how it solves
yeah ask me an abstract question just
ask me any question just something
completely out of out there how many
particles of fuel do you get behind a
jet stream see I don't know the answer
to that I have no clue and I can answer
that gosh you could have asked me one
that I could have leave my answer is
that any question but the fact here is
that okay so
I've sat down with a Rubik's Cube yep
yeah at the cottage because you know you
got a pastime this being lazy and and
not that not that there's anything lazy
about a Rubik's Cube
I'm an intelligent guy though oh it's
it's good for stimulating the brain and
I'm an intelligent guy but I don't think
I've ever solved it no I think I've
gotten to the point where I'm just
frustrated I got like two sides and I'm
like forget this I actually pull the
pieces out as a kid I addy sticker dip
and read it
so just consider that okay so I gave up
as a human yeah now this is a computer
algorithm powered by AI technology a
neural net so the closest thing to a
neural net that we've basically seen
like we're really starting to see these
things so I think like the lieutenant
data starts to think for itself so
here's the challenge so I've said to
this computer here's the challenge you
need to make the colors match yeah just
over SATA fall that they've told it
that's it that's it that's that's the
that's the end game and the computer has
said okay boom boo-boom boo-boom figured
it out yes and trial and error and hmm
maybe if I try this and figured it out
right
no and like that's amazing it is and the
fact that I did it in just over a second
like I get it a second there's no
story's just over a second like it's
solvent in just over a second which is
amazing so solved it but figured it out
not just like it's not like they said
okay I'm gonna program it to turn it
this way turn it that way turn it that
way no they said this is the this is
what you need to do yep solve it and the
computer figured it out it is amazing
technology that will change the world
yeah sure absolutely so on the on the
positive side you say to this similar
technology how can we solve an
environmental crisis how can we get the
oil spill out of the the bay right and
and it can this is the idea is that
we're gonna get to the point where we
can ask those kinds of questions of an
AI of a computer you think Google's fast
you think Google is impressive with its
results well this is gonna blow your
mind
sure well the thing with this story that
makes me go hmm
a little bit is the fact that it solved
it in a completely different logic
pattern than the way the humans yeah
and if thinks differently it does which
is wonderful but if they're looking to
have AI mimic humans to allow it to do
the work to then take that and go okay
what about this complex thing that we
haven't been able to figure out leads to
logical thought that says it's going to
come up with a solution that we can't
wrap our heads around
that's the inevitable question right how
do we control AI so I'd say the biggest
question right now and I think that is
the whole part of this story that
excites me the most is that it's not
about the Rubik's Cube it's about this
is how it thinks okay how do we adjust
the AI programming to think like we do
when they could do that that's a whole
nother game-changer because then it goes
hey how do we solve the great Garbage
Patch in the Pacific Ocean that's double
the size of Texas oh well go about it
this way yeah like there's the answer
and when Martin Ford came on the show to
talk about artificial intelligence and
and where they're at right now as a as
an author in the field like he used
examples like we do we do need to
understand the process yes that the AI
is using to get to the solution we need
to understand that we also need to have
control because a simple request of this
AI to say in the example that he used
was to make our paperclip company more
efficient and then all of a sudden the
AI takes over and and with it within no
amount of time they the AI is like
pulling resources from everywhere and
making an efficient paperclip company to
the point where now human civilization
is destroyed but paperclips are still
being manufactured very efficiently we
have to have control we have to actually
understand the process that the the AI
is is thinking right and and you can get
our heads around that which is tough now
the one you know if they don't think
like us I agree you know we've got the
chat room money as we're talking about
this and the food brings up a new
question is how many times did the AI
have to solve the puzzle first
that would be interesting to know was it
a simple oh this is the situation I
gotta run some farts okay yeah or did it
actually go through trial and error that
I'd be interesting to know sure I would
imagine like and we don't have the
answer with this and it's not in the the
news but I would imagine that it's like
a it learned it and then it was able to
solve it better having learned it I
don't think that the one second included
the learning and figuring out how to but
then when it was presented with it
having learned how to deal with a
Rubik's Cube like a human child you
would be like this can move this way and
that way that takes time oh yeah yeah oh
you'd have to teach it some but it's a
good question so that will we'll pose
that to the a I will ask Intel has
unveiled its new AI system Pahokee beach
it's a neural morph morphic computer
capable of simulating eight million
neurons neuromorphic engineering also
known as neuromorphic computing
describes the use of systems containing
electronic analog circuits to mimic
neurobiological architecture in the
present nervous system the goal of
neuromorphic research is to achieve a
supercomputer a thousand times more
powerful than any today during the DARPA
electronics resurgence initiative summit
in Detroit on Monday Intel unveiled a 64
chip computer capable of simulating
eight million neurons in total Intel
labs managing director rich uhlig said
Pahokee Beach will be made available to
sixty research partners to quote advance
the field end quote and scale up AI
algorithms like spare coding and path
planning pokey Beach pack 64 low key 128
core 14 nanometer and neuromorphic chips
which were the first detailed in October
2017 each lower loi processor has a 60
millimeter die size and contain over two
billion transistors 130,000 artificial
neurons and 100
and 30 million synapses in addition to
three managing Lake menthe cores for
task orchestration according to Intel
Loy he processes information up to 1,000
times faster and 10,000 times more
efficiently than traditional processors
and it can solve certain types of
optimization problems with more than
three orders of magnitude gains in speed
and energy efficiency as compared to
conventional CPU operations the chip
consumes roughly 100 times less energy
than widely used CPU run simulation
location and mapping methods Intel says
that that later this year will introduce
an even larger llahi system Pahokee
Springs that will deliver an unquote
unprecedented a level of performance and
efficiency for neuromorphic workloads
with upwards of 100 million neurons but
they didn't cover what the giggle score
is yeah three points one do you remember
when processors had really friendly
names like Pentium Celeron it's so well
done everything is like a foreign word
it's really tough but you get the gist
of it - when can we add our crypto
miners to this yeah and yeah I mean
third question is like and it's not
really a question but more of a
statement seeing how technology has
progressed and hearing now that
processors are being described in terms
of neurons and positrons like this is
the stuff of Star Trek it is like we're
talking a brain this is a brain at 8
million what is it eight million neurons
so we're what a billion I think is it a
better brain than we have no no oh gosh
no no it's faster I don't know them so
yeah no this is nothing compared
a human brain but again going back to
knowing that that computers are starting
to think yeah and that they are now
they're building a brain out of computer
chips now what I want to know though is
how does this compare to Watson Oh
Watson would be nothing compared to this
right we're talking like in the story
talking about how this can be a thousand
times faster than any supercomputer that
exists today right in our I figure how
much is in the near future
Watson yeah that's all y'all we're gonna
do this and by the way it's really gonna
be better by the fault yeah so again ask
that question how can we solve world
hunger you know just just answer me that
well first of all yeah I got some I got
some suggestions so it's gonna it's
gonna help with that kind of stuff right
if it's in the right hands mm-hmm and
that's that it's just nuts like I'm just
I am absolutely mind blown to the point
of tongue-tied because I put everything
like this in the context of data because
and data the the Star Trek character
because that's a positronic net that's a
neuromorphic computer right and now
we're actually okay this is like dot
like this is the the rudimentary
introductory version of hate they've got
the AI technology now so it can think
for itself it can learn how to solve a
Rubik's Cube in a second and we've got
the technology to make it fast and make
it to be able to think in a very very
fast manner so as like you work in tech
yeah and you do a lot of don't work in a
I like this stuff just as mine no but
you do a lot of service calls and like
people colored could you imagine if
there was an AI compete like a micro
version of this that your company bought
mmm that allowed it to VPN into people's
home computers to solve their problem
automatically for them could you imagine
how that would change your industry mmm
there's a lot in my industry that's
redundant and by that I mean it's like
repetitive yes
it's always the same thing but I think
you take something like this they can go
like that yeah like how and can talk I
mean talk to your Amazon echo and be
like it sounds like a person it does
they can talk they can so you know
there's all kinds of ominous things here
but if in the right hands this can be a
very powerful tool for good right so
this has just been unveiled and
developed but autonomous vehicles are
already out there right yeah no no but
through the internet very Wi-Fi through
LTE or 5g or whatever you want to do
it's like it's always connected yeah so
now all of a sudden you have this kind
of a brain powering the neural network
of autonomous vehicles okay do you
remember about I'm gonna say year and a
half every two years ago.we I don't know
if there's a news story but what we've
talked about a ton of vehicles and I
said wouldn't it be amazing if we can
get to the point where traffic
management through connected cars it's
instantaneous where it goes based on
people's driving patterns their work
hours yeah
reading off their schedule and now we're
getting to privacy and all kind of stuff
but sure you know you know reading off
your Google Conner where you supposed to
be Drive time to go you need to leave it
this time by the way take that exit that
exit and there's a computer somewhere
that's routing all these autonomous cars
that's like you just go I'm good this
moment and they're making flying taxis
yes and add that to the mix all right
you have no reason to be late ever the
computer made on time that's an amazing
point hey let's take a quick look at the
cryptocurrency market this is how it
looks here in 2019 before the neural
network allows us to mine massive
amounts of Bitcoin so right now
Bitcoin is sitting at 9700 ninety two
dollars and 67 cents I'll just say
everything's down Bitcoin Bitcoin losing
though it's the biggest loser 2137
dollars and 35 cents in the - from last
week Facebook Libre is still sitting at
zero dollars and I'm going to keep
telling you that because one day it's
gonna be worth a penny
and then that's when we know that
Facebook is actually doing what they
said they're gonna do litecoin is at
ninety one dollars and three cents down
sixteen and 72 cents etherium at two
hundred and thirteen dollars and 72
cents monaro at seventy seven fifty nine
now torque is at zero point nine six ten
thousandth of a cent and turtle coin
also losing at zero point nine eight ten
thousandth of a cent do remember if
you're going to mine if you're gonna
invest or otherwise work in
cryptocurrency it's a market that never
closes and it's a market that is always
volatile so be careful and only spend
only invest where you can afford to lose
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Jeff Lester
[Music]
[Applause]
