hey guys welcome to coffee break
it's good to have you here so far I only
see Sol booboo and Peter but hey guys oh
and here comes bill yay
y'all are running behind schedule today
that watching a movie with Darren Kaylee
they taking a break from your movie or
are they your watch I paused it hey
everybody
y'all well oh oh I'm pausing it
it's coffee bro it's the first it's well
I mean it here we are it's Saturday what
is it the 25th of April April 25th and
that's the first time I was the first
one here in a while and I know the date
I didn't have to check the calendar
[Laughter]
hold on so you're not gonna see
something for a couple of seconds
alright all this sticker really stuck
where is it there it is that's why thank
you yeah are you guys having a fun day
yeah even yours got hold it oh nice
here I uh I can actually if I may I'm
gonna switch so that people can see that
a little better okay just one second
there we go that's my they cut out they
took pictures of my family and friends
and cut them out that's good
they're all doing all sorts of weird
things yep nice that's good man
glad they're giving you a nice time
today watching The Thin Man what is it
The Thin Man The Thin Man I don't know
it's a 1934 oh all right
classic my time you would like it I
think oh yeah oh I'll definitely look it
up listen man all right yeah back then
like they had to get real creative with
the way they worked visual effects again
yeah it's a it's a movie off a Dashiell
Hammett book they can Nora Charles and
detectives it's funny though funny stuff
good stuff hate to interrupt your movie
man okay so what do you do like it yeah
you're doing a nice dinner you mentioned
the other day you're you're you got
something out of the freezer
I got a 15 pound turkey very nice I
found myself a chicken leg in the
freezer so that's the closest I'll get I
was saying to Bill yesterday just in
discord that I'm the only meat-eater in
my household of five people
so like to get out of Turkey is like
that you can't do it so because it would
just you know just be waste had the
final I went shopping before the
lockdown
there was no chicken in the store in any
of the stores there was no pork in any
of the stores was all beef and I rarely
eat beef and Derrick really shouldn't so
I said well turkeys closer know if
everybody's ignoring the turkey so he's
just great that'll be a treat yeah I
usually only get I get turkey at
Thanksgiving and Christmas and that's it
but I've every time every single time I
sit down for a Christmas dinner I say
why don't we do this in July this is
awesome turkey and the love lamb yeah I
mean two big lamb fan over here on the
first day we have a big yeah the lamb in
our grocery stores actually says right
on it New Zealand lamb so what else is
going on what else is going on I am
working my pants off guys I knew that
this would happen right like I don't
know if you've noticed but I've been
trying to publish from Wednesday and get
all the videos done and but at the same
time I'm I'm doing coffee break on my
lunch break which is the time that I
normally like pre kovat would would be
doing the editing and uploading and
stuff like that so real struggle this
morning and last night to to get
everything done so so I'm working on
republishing Wednesday's full-length
show I got the news going up this
morning I've got yesterday's coffee
break going up this morning
so today's coffee break will probably be
posted tomorrow so is what it is so what
happened with the show unfortunately I
can't get into a bill I had I had to
take it down I had to do a recut and
it'll be republished so seeing them all
yeah unfortunately there yeah that's all
I can say you know sometimes when you're
a TV broadcaster that happens where
especially when you've got a lot of
people involved in the show and a lot of
people that are you know like you got a
lot of people I had a lot of people on
on Wednesday so it's really hard to
coordinate with everybody's PR teams and
everything and so and you question that
insurance thing about being a
broadcaster now I think you just
answered it what's that one when you
were getting trying to get the insurance
yeah now you can try oh I know yeah no I
know and and yeah you're you're liable
for so much stuff it's like you say the
wrong thing on the news and someone can
sue you it's ridiculous exactly though
regardless regardless it was decided
that yeah I mean the problem arose and I
just just I made the decision that I'm
gonna pull it down and recut and put it
up so that it just relieves the stress
of those involved there you go yeah he
did John I think is the most ever and no
name for him he created the first and a
graphical user interface for a DVD
player that worked on Linux and he was
sued by the major studios you just lost
a case but it's a personal blog his coat
is called at it I think still to this
day so sue me just the names of oh my
gosh
yeah and it's never like a case of I
would I mentioned about Brenda was a
blessing or I think is how you say her
name or something like that but the
actress who's gone into comedy from
Vieira and on her one of her recent
episodes she was being sued because an
overweight person bumped their hip on
the table in the coffee shop like it was
with the helix and it's the same kind of
thing it's like it she has no case but
these days you just get sued over
anything and it's like and it's just the
stress and the time wasted and yeah
money was so often just a story okay I
can did I do that and you guys were like
okay yeah frivolous lawsuits one of the
Norwegian TV stations 98 or something
like that it was about American
Insurance frauds and they do too and
they had the document at the documentary
team following them where they had a
sting operation where a bus with people
just stopped at a red light and a car
came back and gently nudged at the end
of their bumper on that on the bus no
one noticed anything until they did the
better we just we have open the door and
without in and I talk to them and
they've been in the store apparently to
fill out some paperwork and and then I
had two more people entered the bus and
seven people filed in insurance claims
and the lowest claim was million dollars
and the judge he defyin was
the exact amount they filed for
insurance claim they were fined I like
that that's ready and people file I
think they get a settlement if they get
anything they'll be happy it's
ridiculous though yeah
anyway it was stupid it was actually a
lot a two-parter it was the some years
ago a woman I think sued McDonald's
because they had two hot coffee yes yeah
and they and they they lowered that one
made the global news yes lower the
temperature and then they added of
warning to the cap that their content
was hot later another person sue them
for having too cold coffee
no no so what is what's going on with
everybody else this weekend I'm just
like getting through it you know what
I'll say though it is beautiful outside
so it's been a stressful couple days I'm
going to take my family on a drive with
the hope that we're gonna find a hiking
trail that's not got people on it and if
that's the case then we're gonna then
we're gonna go for a short hike along a
marsh or there's no allowed to do that
we went to dine door there thinking
about the big dead people your friend
and I don't think that's wise even if
they say you can get together with up to
10 people it's like you got to be smart
no don't do that
unless they're from your own household
yeah you guy gathered you like it right
no I understand that
and here it's five people but that
doesn't mean go out with your five best
friends
it means don't don't be near
more than five people it's a warning not
a not a guideline for how many people
you can hang out without changing the
safe route so that you can go you can
maintain different people going there
but the only allowed to go to again
people no more
or something like that anyway but to
grade your drug which I'll get close
about from the date anyway the good navy
buddy
the Great Lord revenue as well cuz I
called them in to give him a bubbly
because he went yelled at the graveyard
fact is yeah exponential growth is
exponential growth whether it's ten
people are a hundred people it's just in
a lot less if it's ten people but it's
still exponential growth so god be
deadly that's definitely it safe I got a
gig up in it were they doing dating
yeah I was gonna visit my mother cuz I
haven't seen her in a while and Jesus
she's you know she's alone and lonely
she's 91 um but she's been having tons
of visitors so it's like I can't on the
risk going in there and bring it in home
you know it's crazy yeah oh that drives
me nuts
my yeah I don't like to talk about
person like but my mom is like don't
have people in your house right now
please I just want like I'm trying to
keep you safe yeah
you don't know like I mean I'm hanging
out at my parents house during this
whole thing
needless to say I'm you know I'm
spending time with my family that live
with me like my kids and my wife but
other than that I see my colleagues in
passing in the office but
not to get too close and I'm locked away
in my butt in my office which is in the
back of the building so so I keep pretty
clear of everyone else right now which
is a sad state but you got to do it so I
know not everybody's practicing that but
we gotta keep other people safe
we're going down to the dungeon I
cleaned up a little bit I managed to see
if I can get the light on here see if
you can see this I'd have to turn the
other loose dude it could be a lot of
drawers for storage down our whole 9th
let me get the mean I know I'm gonna pin
his video here guys so that you can you
can see that that's better
I'm getting dizzy bill sorry yeah I got
all these sterilized roids now all
sorted out nice so I got the Arduino
Xand FPGAs in that drawer the banana
PI's in the orange PI's and Google coral
the Cata stellata pandas notice that one
Robbie don't get them mixed up that one
says grater
yeah I accidentally hooked the 12-volt
power supply up to a Odroid xu4 and
still worked
we will never hold it amigo the voltage
regulator went out I keep it here it's
sitting it's sitting there marked that
it's bad oh yeah yeah that's the one
just to remind can't trust that one yeah
well that looks great I like the
organization of it yeah no it's good
that the old Dell used to be there 2950
way I get rid of that thing it was just
you got it you've got to display there
do you have like a KVM that you're using
to
be able to switch between SBC's there's
a little KVM switch there yeah that goes
between the the two servers here which
are running proxmox so i can put any vm
on nice and i got i got that running
VMware EXI ESXi 5.5 for testing for
names and one of those over there is
running the ESXi version six for GM's
testing and the one on the left is
that's the one running server 2019
hyper-v excellent the free version one
is my file server for the house yes and
these guys those are the torrent service
with the cat fire oh cool
nice I got the same same device I mean
wow those are the HC 2 isn't it no those
HC ones with are the HC one ok the video
is deceptive
so HC ones I that's what I've got on top
of my server rack I'll show you some
time at the studio is it HC one with my
torrent server as well so we're doing a
very similar setup with that those are
all your names mom I should I should
like seriously like install crypto
mining on my name's updates or something
quite that arm D that's the rock pro
nice the LTS cute so yeah it's finally
got this this half of the basement
straightened up
very nice did a little different and it
was when the mini more say a year or so
ago haha lol I suppose there's a
bicycles hanging out the same
cool you bring those down the stairs or
do you have separate access we go we go
I bought hangars for our bikes for the
garage but I've never it blocks the
ability to then open the garage door
around here to the water
outside yeah notice there's no car in
the garage all right the other day again
we have been waking up to snow today yep
the floor is moving well if you open the
garage door on the outside there's
there's a deck above it so there's the
two six by six it's coming down on
either side of the driveway so Mike do
we really want you what you're gonna
have to back in or back out you really
want to run the risk of taking down the
deck yeah good good setup like a
Saturday doesn't
when I was in school I bought the house
from garage and and the concrete garage
within the concrete a roof and on top of
that was ultimate area space and if the
previous only used the roof of the
garage to store a few tons of timber on
it a few cars on top of the garage man
what I used to control everything
regular pine book Wow
yeah I hope you have a USB keyboard for
it bill I am I am not a typist so I can
you can find everything yeah yeah I
guess that's the that's the truth isn't
it it's it's young you don't ever look
at the keys that it drives you nuts if
the keys aren't in exactly who's
actually I'm not a touch typist I've
tried I just
I'm too old Thank You doc the last year
I've started to do typing almost without
looking so after almost 30 years I'm
starting to be my problem is I I do it
while I'm trying to learn and then I got
to do something and then I hunt you back
and you just pretty much lost all the
muscle memory you tried to learn so I
give up I can't I said well enough
hunting and pecking with three or four
fingers oh yeah that's why I like some
people say oh why don't you just learn
the new keyboard layout
yeah I go from computer to computer to
computer it's got to be the same on each
one otherwise like I click talk in 10
different languages it's just you're
still going to be pushing the wrong
buttons at the wrong time my old man he
I think you're almost 40 years at the
same job as a computer engineer hold the
keyboard that he was taking care of that
he used for almost 20 years or 30 years
until he had he had to stop working
because it had to kiss any keyboard that
emulated those two keys it was an old
UNIX keyboard and yeah so he he took
care that keyboard and he used it and I
think he fixed a few problems with it
along the way until he had to give up
some keyboards that you just love like
the Commodore vic-20 and Commodore 64 I
just loved the feeling of those
keyboards yeah and then it moved it like
to the IBM remember the old mechanical
keyboards then used to get from IBM
those were great now it's like it's just
whatever you can get yeah we still have
one of those in our server room in the
office there I love that they're great
keyboards though they just feel so good
to type on and you can't kill them from
as they'll be ps2 I would expect so you
know most of the modern computers don't
have few ports anymore or ATX even
remember the old ATX barrel plug the
5-pin din yeah oh man yeah Peter was
saying there and I'm sorry Peter I know
we kind of missed you but Peter was
saying that he's gotten the first draft
of his program ready he's got that that
game he was doing so Peter I put on the
schedule as I promised I'm going to do a
feature on how to use github and I think
that's even more important now that you
know that github is free
golden autumn did you and my neighbor
the Belton female thank you yeah so you
watch for you watch for the for the
feature on github it's it's several
weeks out because we're pretty hooked up
but watch for that because then that's
going to help you to be able to to share
that code because I don't want to upload
it to my github I want to show you how
to use github and when you look at AJ
what you think yeah oh I don't know that
I don't know the language so I don't
have any opinions that's why you got to
get it on github you gotta get it on
github and and get other people that
program in that language I beg you to
bunny go over there did you get that big
of a as well I'll take you to the
running code unit oh yeah yeah I don't
speak that language
Azeris is the IDE what's the what's the
language you used on the run directly
will navigate by inaudible fault
that gave all the wonderful flow oh it's
like a unexecuted oh yeah oh yeah
Peter you do so well man and I hope you
the viewers who watch this on demand
know that you know Peter it's hard for
him to talk so I appreciate them Lauren
doing his level best you don't want me
brother yeah yeah well you know but
anyway but if you will need people it
will run on Linux oh yeah yeah good you
don't need a beta version of this type
for me I'm trying to go in the part of
something a
Eugene gate directory which is over come
on and you couldn't find it to do a
quick word reductio though I began to
letter I have no idea how to do any of
that stuff
I'm dying about that got to let it in
the bond of the word out you know
whoever does that I met to be in a
blended it was out yeah in Linux it does
have to be case sensitive but I don't
know how to do your your dot a Qing
Levin's and stuff like that that's not a
good I had a yeah yeah so they did
reliably they did wind up doing oh yeah
he does like they did the wouldn't work
oh yeah I imagine if it's using the
Linux file system it is gonna be case
sensitive
in Linux like slash if you had a folder
called slash home with a capital H that
would not be your home folder that would
actually be interpreted as a different
home a different directory all the other
yeah I get which one does code which
what do you put will they will like it's
all lowercase you know I did glad to be
quite good are they to you don't you
know what you'd probably be best to do
though like if you're looking at the
Linux file system for the home folder is
it's going to be installed as the user
and running as the user right so the
home is just a tilde so tilde always
resolves to the users home folder so if
you're logged in as Peter then slash
home slash Peter is your home folder but
you can just use tilde slash and that
will be slash home slash Peter you can
take you there automatically like that
it's like a squiggly a squiggly line I
think it's like on the left hand side of
your keyboard on the back kick above the
tab where right here chef yeah exactly
yeah like a sine wave yeah or you could
do that
a dollar sign on home in their home is
in all caps like use the home string
yeah yeah that works too
I like the tilde because it's pretty
universal guys we we are out of time
again I know goodness I will be back
again tomorrow I'll be at studio Itamar
oh so I'll be checking in from there
remind me I'll show you where my where
my Odroid hc1 is that's probably it's
probably like a mirror of marsh man's
setup we have the same files being that
we're just sharing torrents between us
all right guys I'm gonna also get our
video published from from Wednesday
night that's gonna go up today during
the course of this I got the approval on
the recut so so that's good so you'll
see that go back up if you already
watched it liked it and commented and
stuff please do that again because I
lose all the views so we're starting
back over from zero from zero it sucks
that youtube doesn't allow you to
replace a video because it's like a
simple recut and you lose all your views
and all your likes so what can you do
over you have to upload a sack or like a
new file altogether
cook that put a boost version you have
to really do over yeah yeah I had to
re-render yeah yeah rerender re-upload
well they get to baby does when you move
on dat soulja fulfill that you look at
it somebody go through and well they
like a baby without the thingy but when
you go to when I've got some time and on
that note I am completely out of time
see you tomorrow
happy birthday Belle
