here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom Robbie called at last
week when he said we may start to see
illegitimate companies moving content on
to the dark web in light of recent
government sanctions
well now BBC News announced it has
launched a dark web tour mirror of its
new service the Bloodhound supersonic
car has completed its first drive across
the ha scheme dry lake in South Africa
two reports published in the last few
months show that malware operators are
experimenting with using WAV audio files
to hide malicious code and Google built
an advanced computer that has achieved
quantum supremacy for the first time
surpassing the performance of
conventional devices stick around the
full details are coming up later in the
show this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
Linux bias I'm Sasha Rickman and here
the top stories were following this week
Robbie called it last week when he said
we may start to see legitimate companies
moving content onto the dark web in
light of recent government sanctions
news service the tor browser is privacy
focused software used to access the dark
web the browser can obscure who is using
it and what that is being accessed which
could help people avoid government
surveillance and censorship in the BBC's
case it comes about as countries
including China Iran and Vietnam have
tried to block their citizens from
accessing the BBC News website or
programs instead of visiting bee-bees bc
co UK / news or bbc.com / news users of
the tor browser can visit the new BBC
news s news v2 the JTP s y u dot onion
website visiting this web address will
not work in a regular web browser the
dark web copy of the BBC news website
will be the International Edition as
seen from outside the UK
it will include foreign language
services such as BBC Arabic BBC Persian
and BBC Russian but UK only content and
services such as BBC iPlayer will not be
accessible due to broadcast rights so
you were right there you go whoa where
did Robbie go yeah so you absolutely
called it called it yeah and this will
happen with more more websites and more
I think so yeah this is just the first
of many I think it's great step in the
right direction
oh yeah especially for journalism right
because you have companies like CBC they
give directions to if you want to report
something like as the secret they
instruct you how to do tour but to have
that directly linked in so have there
say it that's that's pretty cool yes so
the way I see it is right now the dark
web has very dark aura to it right
people think of the dark web as hackers
right malicious stuff pornography and
and various things that you know guns
and drugs the dark web so let's get some
legitimate services on the dark web to
demonstrate that this is a powerful
technology that can be used for good
yeah they should have called it
something else it shouldn't have been
called the dark web it makes it sound
scary and shady they should have called
it like the alternate web it's tor yeah
what if you don't like onions tomato I
love this I love it and I think that
we'll see a huge shift toward that in in
the next few weeks
yeah yeah well and what happens is
government's creating sanctions to say
hey we're no longer gonna do allow
business from United States to Venezuela
right well now with the dhobi cutting
off access to Venezuelan customers
you've already paid exactly the dark web
is the correct answer
exactly and BBC already sees that yeah
way to go BBC
good job guys I got push buttons here
I'll probably lose the mask for the rest
of the show we don't have an HR
department yeah the bloodhound
supersonic car has completed its first
drive across the ha ski and dry lake in
South Africa pilot Andy green took the
jet powered vehicle on a gentle 100 mile
per hour shakedown test run on Friday
bloodhound is in northern Cape for
high-speed trials as it works towards an
assault on the land speed record next
year that mark of 763 miles per hour was
set twenty two years ago also by
be green in the thrust SSC car thrust
broke the sound barrier in the process
the first and only car to have achieved
the feat bloodhound will be will be run
at progressively faster and faster
speeds in the coming days as engineers
seek to verify its design and the proper
working of a subsystems with the
Eurofighter jet engine on board it
should be capable of reaching 500 to 600
miles per hour this year the addition of
a rocket motor in 2020 ought to then
take the car over 800 miles per hour
Engineers will be looking in particular
at how much drag bloodhound is producing
in these trials this will determine the
level of thrust that they will need from
the rocket they will also be checking
that the parachutes and brakes can bring
the car safely to a stop at the end of a
high-speed run up to a dozen runs or
plan between now and midnight with the
first six taking the speed up in steps
of 50 miles per hour scary I understand
the desire to do this but then I mean 80
greens already done it like I feel like
an hour well I'm just wondering because
like it's cool to say yeah fastest car
but I'm just wondering what's the
practical use of this like is there any
way that scientists are like we need a
fast car I mean like I would definitely
take this to work like if I got to work
in like 10 minutes like but to be honest
I think it'll just be the design well
because they're going to be checking to
see what causes drag they're probably
use that in designs for other vehicles
not land-based vehicle are you thinking
Mars perhaps maybe I just I think it's
just our Need for Speed it's like the
humans like we have to progress we have
to invent we have to get better and
better all the time yeah I know I can
understand the need to have parachutes
and such to slow down after the speedrun
yeah but it's wrong during the speedrun
there is no
way to correct for I hope that they're
putting Andy won't know he wouldn't know
know and that scares me like I'm I am
NOT a risk-taker not like yeah that's
the guy who started his own web show
yeah but that's that's a that's a
totally different kind of thing at a fad
like eight hundred miles and nothing
does yeah if you're in space sure but on
land in the desert with wheels as you're
keeping you on the ground not for I I
can imagine the feeling would be
incredible I don't ever want to feel it
okay we have to take a quick break the
crypto report and more of this week's
top tech stories are coming up don't go
anywhere
[Music]
[Applause]
get into the crypto report for this week
as we look back at the past seven days
of cryptocurrency and as we record this
on October 30th 2019 this is how things
look so Bitcoin is a big gainer this
week like we're talking over $1700 per
coin Wow in game so it's sitting at 9196
69 US dollars Facebook libras still not
trading we also have litecoin gaining
nine dollars and six cents at fifty
eight dollars and 21 cents aetherium
also going up 183 48 up twenty three
dollars and change from just last week
and monaro
up at fifty eight seventy two gaining
six dollars and twelve cents and for a
coin that's only worth fifty eight bucks
a gain of six dollars is quite a turn
yeah then we've got the very small micro
coins like Scala at 0.26 ten thousandth
of a cent and in fact turtle coin is
tied at that same value
really so at 0.26 ten thousandth of a
cent but turtle coin being a bigger
gainer because last week it was point
zero one ten thousandth of a sent down
from Scala and I'm not really sure where
scale is going we've seen some problems
with that coin because of the fact that
they've lost like they they had their
name was a trademark of someone else
so they renamed the coin and that and
this was originally stellite and then
they renamed it torque and then oh well
that's our trademark okay so now there's
Scala and so it's like okay this causes
a real like this is the only predictable
thing is that that causes a loss of
confidence in the coin yeah and people
don't really know what's what and we've
got to install new miners we've got to
learn the new codes and the new the new
symbols and and so I'm not really sure
where it's going but I do see turtle
coin is slightly rising slow and steady
you never know I mean over time people
will forget those frequent name changes
as long as it does
continue if it stood oh yeah and if it
sticks out like okay let's stick with
Scala let's say okay that's that's what
we are yeah it's not to spend too much
time on a micro coin but the micro coins
are really interesting because they're
so incredibly cheap like we're talking
yeah point two six ten thousandth of a
cent per coin yeah right so for me
they're far more accessible like all Joe
could say should have bought a Bitcoin
but really I mean I am far more likely
to mine turtle coin than I am you can
mind turtles yeah with consumer gear so
you don't need an ASIC you don't need a
server farm full of you use no you just
need a standard computer and you can
mine potentially thousands upon
thousands of turtle coins with standard
hardware because there's still a lot of
supply and they're really really cheap
yeah so now that said as we always worn
on the crypto report here at category
five TV remember that the crypto
currency market is always changing now
we talk about Bitcoin is a big gainer
this week mm-hmm next week it could go
way down so I mean we've seen it happen
I mean Bitcoin was like 20,000 plus
dollars per coin and then we're now like
last week we were down at 7,000 so
anyone who invested when it was 19 lost
big time so and I say that to warn you
that it's an incredibly volatile because
the market never closes its 24/7 and it
can just go either direction at any
point so my recommendation if you're
gonna invest if you're gonna crypto mine
or whatever you're gonna do to be
involved in cryptocurrency is only spend
what you can afford to lose that's the
only safe way to be involved in the
crypto market sash I'm gonna throw it
back to you for our news stories this
week excellent to reports published in
the last few months show that malware
operators are experimenting with using
WAV audio files to hide malicious code
the technique is known as stenography
the art of hiding information in plain
sight in another data medium in the
software field sonography also referred
to as stego is used to describe the
process of hiding files or a text in
another file of a different format for
example a hiding plain text inside an
images binary format
using stenography has been popular with
malware operators for more than a decade
malware authors don't use stenography to
breach or infect systems but rather as a
transfer method stenography allows files
hiding malicious code to bypass security
software that white lists non executable
file formats such as multimedia files
all previous instances where malware
used stenography revolved around using
image file formats such as ping or jpg
the novelty in the new in the two
recently published reports is the use of
WAV audio files and not seen abused and
malware operations until this year the
first of these two new malware campaigns
abusing WAV files was bat reported back
in June
Symantec security researchers said they
spotted a Russian cyber espionage group
known as water bug or Turla using WAV
files to hide and transfer malicious
code from their server to already
infected victims the second malware
campaign was spotted this month by
blackberry silence
but while the Symantec report described
a nation-state cyber espionage operation
silence said they saw the wave
stenography technique being abused in a
run-of-the-mill crypto mining malware
operation silence said this particular
threat actor was hiding dll's inside WAV
audio files malware already presents on
the infected host would download and
read the wav file extract the DLL bit by
bit and then run it installing a
cryptocurrency miner application named
XMR rig this shows that your mundane
crypto mining malware authors are
growing in sophistication as they learn
from other operations
wow that's hard that's a hard one right
because if you go to a website and they
have normal a file yeah yeah there you
go and you can't stop that like unless
if you want to block everything yeah how
would you ever that's it you can't you
can't block WAV files and JPEGs and Bing
just be old like 9 to 95 basic HTML
sites right like it's it's getting weird
how do you block this and but remember
that stenography cannot infect your
system what can is that if you have an
app that is then able to decode the
hidden files within the stenographic
file that's where you run a problem so
how can that be a problem if you let's
say you deal with pirated software it's
quite likely that they would inject some
form of ability to open stenographic
data so for example let's say you have
Photoshop that's an illegal copy well
you're gonna open JPEG files or exactly
or maybe you've got a wave editor or you
know something like something so you
open the wave file with that editor and
suddenly you're infected that's just one
example but it could come from apps like
apps could enter the app store that are
advertising themselves as hey here's a
wave player for your phone right and if
you're not very careful of the file like
the apps that you install and where you
get them from then that can pose a
problem - yeah it just takes one right
yeah but you have to it has to have that
decoder in place in order to be able to
open the data that is hidden otherwise I
mean you open one of those those files
the wave files and it will play the
audio normally right you'll be able to
edit it in gold wave normally or
audacity but if you have an app that
reads the hidden data that's when you're
in trouble yeah I just feel like these
malicious players they're just like one
little step ahead right so you just you
build yourself up and you get
comfortable with your security and
they're like did you think of that yeah
and that's tough because antivirus can't
stop that yeah and so it really comes
back down to be smart yes be careful and
realize that there are social
engineering tactics out there to trick
you into installing the app that they
want you to open the wave file with yeah
or the JPEG or whatever it is so yeah
I know it would be it would be so easy
to slip into that without having the
foresight to question it yeah yeah thank
you
be careful folks Google built an
advanced computer that has achieved
surpassing of the performance of
conventional devices scientists have
been working on quantum computers for
decades because they promise much faster
speeds now that speed has been realized
and it's mind-blowing there Sycamore
quantum processor was able to perform a
specific task in 200 seconds now get
ready for this that same task would take
the world's best supercomputer ten
thousand years to complete in classical
computers the unit of information is
called a bit and I can have a value of
either 1 or 0 but its equivalent in a
quantum system the qubit short for
quantum bit can be both 1 and 0 at the
same time this phenomenon opens the door
for multiple calculations to be
performed simultaneously but qubits need
to be synchronized using a quantum
effect known as entanglement which
Albert Einstein termed spooky action at
a distance however scientists have
struggled to build working devices with
enough qubits to make them competitive
with conventional types of computer the
word quantum computer is a little bit
misleading because it sounds like a
computer and when people think of
computer they think of a phone or a
laptop the truth is the phone in the
laptop and even a very powerful
supercomputer all operate according to
the same fundamental rules and a quantum
computer is fundamentally different
the classical bit stores information as
a zero or one and a quantum bit can be
both zero and one at the same time if
you have two quantum bits then there are
four possible states that you can put in
superposition with three cubits that's
eight four cubits at sixteen what grows
exponentially the nice thing about
quantum supremacy is that is this a very
well-defined engineering milestone in a
nut cell what we're trying to do is
we're trying to so that experimental
quantum computers can surpass the best
supercomputers in the world to actually
demonstrate quantum supremacy we have
these three steps first pick a circuit
second run it on the quantum computer
third simulate what the quantum computer
is doing on a classical computer we
gradually increase the complexity of
that circuit at some point it becomes
completely impossible for the classical
computer to keep up
then we say we've achieved quantum
supremacy Sycamore contains 54 qubits
although one of them didn't work during
the tests - the device ran on 53 qubits
professor professor Jonathan Oppenheim
from UCL who was not involved with the
latest study says quote it's an
interesting test it shows that they have
a lot of control over their device it
shows that they have low error rates but
it's nowhere near the kind of precision
we would need to have a full-scale
quantum computer end quote
IBM which has been working on quantum
computers of its own questioned some of
Google's figures saying quote this is in
fact a conservative worst-case estimate
and we expect that with additional
refinements of the classical cost of the
simulation can be reduced we can be
further reduced and quote IBM also calls
some of the excitement saying quote
quantum computers will never reign
supreme over classical computers but
will rather work in concert with them
since they each have their unique
strengths end quote
that said this is a very exciting leap
in quantum computing and is destined to
lead to some incredible calculations
being performed in seconds rather than
millennia Wow how sore loser we are
kinda comes across that way it's alright
it's alright we could have done in 400
it's cool you know what the part that
this is why I can never be like a
quantum computing scientist programmer
this is why folks listen up this is why
understand you'll be 1 and 0 at the both
at the same time in binary because
you're either 1 or 0 how physics Asha
physics as Albert Einstein said it's
spooky yeah it enables my brain I love
it yeah
Wow well we're seeing such a shift in
technology and and it is pushing to
towards something new and what would
that be used for I look at n pu and n pu
neural processing units blow my mind
right an eidm is correct like an MP u is
it's not a replacement for a CPU it's
something supplements it's so usually
when you have an MP u you also have a
CPU yeah but it does other things and it
does them really really fast so ni
encode video I use an MPEG encoder card
because mice it will do it faster than
my CPU right because that's or you think
about crypto mining with an ASIC well
you're using an ASIC specifically to
crypto mine at a faster rate so when
they find that hey what can this really
be used for and use it yeah that's my
boy I'll tell you what our passwords
aren't safe anymore like brute forces
group forces the typically a computer
would not be able to brute force our
password in a hundred thousand years hmm
can be done in seconds yeah yeah but now
what security get better as well because
security could also go through quantum
computing can cryptography go through
quantum computing or is that where the
blockchain and quantum computing and
neural processing all come together and
say you know in your face on IBM but
that like it's a it's like a constant
it's like a leapfrog it's like we have
to create cryptocurrency in order to
create Krita cryptography that is
blockchain based and secure yeah and
then the new processors come at quantum
computing that can now well reverse all
it's gotta think how this is gonna
impact everyday life though cuz if you
go back in time when computers are first
like starting up you know you have the
binary system but now what are cell
phones and all these other if we still
have them what are they gonna be like in
50 years from now yeah and if it becomes
mainstream right like isn't sure now it
seems oh it's almost impossible you need
so much power but back then we look when
servers took up like an entire level of
a building even think of the 1980s yes I
was not alive think
though for those of us who were and
think about like this okay and think
about the computers that we had and and
now think about the the fastest computer
in the world at that time and it's not
as fast as what you have in front of you
right there the computer for more games
that was good movie we keep pushing we
keep pushing the battery we I mean this
isn't the only story with it we had the
Bloodhound card now we have these you
know it's it's human nature we are
always gonna try and just grasp it the
next thing we have to any worse yeah and
we'll get there I love it yeah
mind-blowing hey what can it be used for
let us know down below big thanks to Roy
W Nash in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and if you appreciate
what we do become a patron at
patreon.com slash newsroom from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman you know I'm Ravi Ferguson and
I'm Henry Bailey broom
