[Music]
welcome to the world of cripples
welcome to the crypto corner it has been
a fantastic week again not of course if
we look into the numbers like Bitcoin
state around 9200 or theorem around 240
so no huge developments in this area
here but if we sort by 7 days then we
see that we had some coins that
increased by over 100% like Elrond dibi
60 percent over 20 coins increased more
than 15-percent and only four coins lost
more than fifteen percent so a positive
development from that point of view in
the market if we look we compare for
example the the history of the big coins
in the d5 market like maker or or khyber
or 0x when compared with the profit of
theorem then we'll see that the theorem
state more or less flat at 0% so I lost
minus 0.3 percent but all these others
gained over thousand percent so huge
development that is happening under the
hood in the crypto market and so one has
to be careful also at the same time on
where to invest and how to invest
because you might lose a lot of money
one area that is the case is here you
know I don't know if you've seen those
but those are ads in YouTube or even
this is a live YouTube channel that is
currently transmitting and here you see
hey you can win a lot of money if you
just participate in this scam the old
scam so don't even think about putting
some money into it I can guarantee you
you will never see that money back yeah
and so how did I do that nobody really
knows but you see them as advertisements
and also as channels promoting here and
as you can see this one here mr. Kidd
Kidd has got three at 39,000 it's all
fake
so they're masters in in conning people
also the famous pump in dumps so price
goes up because some people are
promoting it in this case tick tock
some kids
promoting dogecoin a coin that has got
no purpose and the price went up by over
forty fifty percent in one day next few
days it came down again so be careful
with these things don't participate
there the moment you hear about some
pump it will still be too late again
because those that started that pump are
already planning on how to leave that
one next is if we look into compound and
if we want to borrow rent some money and
then there is some collateral factor in
here yeah so sixty percent in other
words if I put in 100 percent then I can
take sixty percent out so there's over
an over collateralization in in this
industry and that's how most of these
are staying on a fairly low risk basis
but there has been a new development of
is the first one that is starting now
with credit ik credit allocation so in
other words you can have a credit
without even putting up some collateral
and the way they solve that is that you
have to sign a contract with a person
that gives you all whom you give the
money and it will be sorted out in an
illegal or regular court in case there
is a default so that's an interesting
development I find now another
interesting development but more on the
negative side or not negative but one
has to be careful is tether as you
remember tether has got from the 24-hour
volume it's number two or usually number
one so you see it's very close to a
Bitcoin with 19 billion being traded you
know in 24 hours most of that is between
exchanges of coming from china because
chinese like to put the money in to
tether to keep it there but on the
downside is they have been sued by the
New York Supreme Court because money
disappeared between the company of
BitFenix and Teller and they both belong
to the same company and and it's a it's
a bank that went bankrupt and
850 million dollar disappeared and so
this Court wants going into detail in
regards to tell us so that might be
really bad news for tether so be careful
also on your end with tether now the
last three ones is what's going to
happen coming week the first one is here
bindings - has got an exhibition that
started today and with fairly good
keynote speakers as you can see it's
ongoing already there are a lot of
Chinese people speaking in Chinese which
I find interesting so it's there's a
shift towards Chinese speakers and it's
a good exhibition
the other one is Asia blockchain always
a huge one and also very good speakers
like Chris Hatfield
or has their peers Adam back one of
those big Bitcoin gurus that we have
vitalic butylene just for fun go
subscribe to see and listen to vitalic
it's if you understand something curious
to you and the last one is the Singapore
blockchain also with some very good
speakers and very good headlines
interesting presentations they're giving
you like Charles from Kara Donna is
going to do some presentations is always
fantastic to listen to roger very
controversial personal industry that's
also presenting well just subscribe to
these it's worth the experience and it's
worth just following what they're doing
it's great and they're usually free so
yeah that's it from from us this week so
I hope you enjoyed it I hope you learned
something and I'm looking forward to see
you next week again so thank you very
much for watching
you
