we're kind of hinting at kind of open
source and how open source has been
giving back to all different projects
and one of those projects comes from
Pine 64 and I do want to be really clear
when we first dig into this box
okay the pine book because we're all
very very excited about what the pine
book yes but a $99 laptop well yeah that
too
right because where can you pick up a
laptop for 99 bucks that's 1080p and
ready to go out of the box
Wow but the key thing to remember here
is that what Pyne 64 has done is not
created the video production laptop of
the next generation they haven't taken
the the $1,300 a sous gaming laptop
brand and crunched it down into a $99
pine book no that's not at all what
they've done what they've done is
they've taken the a 64 platform so this
single board computer that we all know
and love the a 64 from Pyne 64 and made
it into a form factor that fits into a
laptop and created a laptop based on
this this architecture right
they've taken open-source and they've
taken all of the like the culmination of
so much effort from various people
within the community and created a
notebook that will work within that
space so this is not your daily driver
for watching videos and and and doing
everything that you do on a laptop
typically it's not a gaming laptop it's
nothing like that
what this is though is the next
generation if you will of the thing like
a single board computer it's the next
generation of like the things you can do
with the single board absolutely but
it's taken it into a form factor of a
laptop
but it takes us into that next level of
single-board computing where they're
pushing that envelope and saying okay
open source has come together Linux has
come together the community has come
together architecture arm has come
together and open source has come
together and said this is possible we
can do this for $99 it's not something
that's going to replace your day-to-day
computer it is however something that
for us developers us Linux fans even we
don't have to be Linux gurus we can be
Linux fans and say this is excellent
we've talked about it on the show how
Google Drive has revolutionized our need
for software because we can actually use
cloud software we can use Google Docs
right we can use Google slides we talked
about this I'm pretty sure we covered
this and that can be done on something
that is a little less powerful than your
super powerful right gaming laptop right
exactly so can I get right over here
into the boxes yes and you can join me
over here we are all wireless so in the
packaging now this is the box just plain
Jane box okay and Sasha in the box came
this five volt adapter right which has
the American plug so is that like
European no this is an American Canadian
okay so 110 120 volts so what was the
one behind it oh that's just an this is
like a universal so if you order this
for in somewhere else in the world
present it send you a different thing
right yeah and that makes sense right
so this is 500 it's only 0.5 amps but
it's 5 volts no that's the input the
output is 3 amps so 3,000 milliamps so
there's pretty good amount of power
coming in for that but it is 5 volts
which is interesting now are you ready
to give me the box
yes so ladies and gentlemen the
culmination of open source up until 2019
are you ready to get into the box
and within the box not less boring oh
there is another Bach we literally it's
like the Russian dolls heard nesting
what the heck
we seriously Sasha have that's a better
looking box oh yeah this has not been
quite as abused by the delivery system
can I get into this one yes okay oh this
one is locked if you have the key
BAM that looks a little no no this is
good we even lost focus there which just
shows you that this is good we've got
some phone look at this Wow all right
what do we got oh I see stickers guys
we're talking about stickers no these
are mine yeah pine sixty-four look at
that we got two different size pine
sixty-four stickers that they have
thrown in and we've also now on this
side you can't see but they are white so
the same logo but in white so this would
work really well on my on my darker
laptop here that's cool okay so I do
have a letter from I'm assuming TL
personally sent this to me
dear Piner this batch of 11.6 inch pine
books features a 1920 by 1080 IPS panel
which is an upgrade to the previous 1368
by 768 display found in earlier
iterations we hope that you find this as
a pleasant surprise well I do smiley
face a smiley face let's jump over here
onto the camera so Sasha if you move
over here we'll just jump over and I'll
read you the the entire letter in its
entirety okay so this said due to the
upgrade in in the resolution open-source
developers in particular in our sole I
snowy IU fan shade Slayer and sha they
required extra time to build their
respective operating systems so that the
higher resolution could be supportive
supported and this resulted in the
every day being pushed back a couple of
weeks now we felt this here in Canada
now we broadcast from Canada and this
took more than a couple of weeks to get
here because we'll the border stopped it
right and they said what did they say
okay you guess I'm going I think I know
what is it I think that they would not
believe at all that a laptop could be
$99 yes yeah this can't be true this
can't be ninety-nine bucks that's what
the border police said so they stopped
it and T all had to put his foot down
and say look with all in this thing for
$4.99 no no and that finally let it
through so here we are a thousand weeks
later please note that due to the 1080p
IPS panel some existing pine book OSS
may not work until supported by the
higher resolution for the until support
for the higher resolution has been added
to the operating system to reflect this
the pine 64 pine book wiki site and pine
64 installer utility have been split
into two separate categories for the
pine book and 1080 P pine book Oh so
keep that in in mind if you have an
older iteration right it's called pine
buck and now it's called 1080 P pine
buck so that's the 2019 model okay so
please use and install the OS images
from the 1080p pine books section we're
not going to do that tonight I'm gonna
see what's actually like pre-installed
on there right maybe hopefully there's
something that will at least get us up
and running the plastic enclosure goes
on that comes with your pine book is a
part of the packing material as normal
for that break or get damaged during
shipment please note that this is not
considered a damage to the pine book
since the enclosure itself is part of
the packaging material and designed to
handle and absorb impact that sounds
like something that a manufacturer would
say like maybe Samsung saying do not
peel off
the screen don't worry if the shell is
broken now in this case it looks like
they have double packaged it in
cardboard
first things first Sasha this is if this
is it this is it
oh wow this is a lot smaller than I was
expecting but then I thought I shouldn't
say expecting because I have very little
expectations that's it that's all that's
in the box so very well packaged albeit
pretty pretty bland well yes yeah not
not very flashy we're not paying extra
for flashy packaging right here we go so
this is a lot smaller then I was
expecting you know ladies and gentlemen
okay let's see there's a paper here yeah
okay an eight-and-a-half by eleven sheet
of paper so it is it's about identical
it's all it's a little bit narrower but
so the paper is a little bit bigger then
the pine book right so this is just a
1080p pine book and let's actually I'm
not afraid of you dropping it because it
is solid state it has emmc sixteen
gigabytes it has four gigs of ram I
presume possibly two I'm gonna get into
the specs a moment but how does it feel
it feels nice I mean it feels it's not
heavy but it's small its correction it
is two gigabytes of RAM okay okay so
let's let's get a look here so on this
side I've got a micro SD slot which is
bootable so I can install operating
systems on that and boot from them then
I've got a headphone / microphone jack
multi function then I've got USB 2 which
is a full-size USP USB Jack which is
quite nice over on this side I've also
got another USB 2 jack and a barrel
connector DC 5 volts which is our
connection for the charger itself again
5 volts 10,000 milliamp hours so we're
presumably going to get a fair bit of
life out of that
and what I had expected would be the
HDMI port is covered by a piece of
electrical tape let's find out what
that's all right you know and ladies and
gentlemen oh don't you just want to just
look at that that's nice just stare at
that and it does have that yes and it
has that look of like a lightweight like
portable right almost a MacBook Air kind
of esque
feeling to it the bezel is quite I mean
first glances I mean this is our first
impression to folks so my first
impression is wow that looks it looks
pretty nice yeah I'm curious about this
here this is like a piece of is that a
white electrical tape users dead yeah oh
yeah this looks like something that I
should peel off let's see what okay so
that is literally just a cover for a
micro HDMI so there's an HD why do we
have this piece of tape over top we will
never know but it's gone now folks and
we will test this over the coming weeks
to see if the HDMI works as we would
expect yeah I sure will but first I see
there's a yeah there's a little bit's
tape over top of the 0.3 megapixel
webcam which is a very low resolution
camera but ideal for something like
discord chat or something like that if
you're chatting on skype with the family
it's perfectly usable it's not HD like
for interviews or video production or
anything like that but certainly great
for just chat and lo oh yeah
right looking at the keyboard so first
things that I notice here on the
keyboard session I'm just going to move
this aside so looking at the keyboard I
mean I'm in an El Nino type ER and I
type 180 words a minute and this drives
me nuts
Oh first of all this is where the shift
should be oh that's that should be the
shift so shift here has a pipe and a
slash over here check this out the arrow
keys are part of my right shift key and
the shift key is in fact this little
microscopic thing now I do want to
reiterate the what we're looking at here
is a $99 armed pine buck right so I do
want to be clear that what we're looking
at is something that is dirt cheap and
revolutionary as far as what is
currently available on the market this
is not changing things that looks like
maybe a right-click and then we've got a
function what I feel like this is like
points insert bullet points here we have
a lot of function keys so this is like a
numpad so if I hold in the function keys
presumably this becomes a numpad and the
slash where is this slash can I just say
oh my gosh no okay so if you can you hit
you hit this come on all right
don't mess with slash I'm just saying
that is bloody nonsense
I found it though it's but you found it
it looks like it requires a function key
press in order to press it let's go back
to okay so I I need to remind myself
what this is I want to I want to use
this I want to utilize this pine book
for programming because as a programmer
this is going to be ideal but this kind
of thing this is this drives me nuts
so the slash is actually function slash
well and where the slash should be is a
closing brace okay
you guys see that so the keyboard I do
not I immediately hate it from here well
you don't love it okay you know when
when you when you screw around with
slash like that because slash is
something that you use very regularly
yeah or pipe for example like having to
press function pipe that's not that's
not cool do you think that there's a
reason they did that though
anybody who knows one comment below so I
I think that the keyboard aside okay so
I'm not keen on this we do have USB yeah
so I imagine I could use an external USB
keyboard if I needed to if I really
wanted to now for general typing if I
were to get used to the fact that some
of the keys are absolutely in the wrong
place and that I do not like the fact
that slash is here and on a function key
so I have to actually push function
slash that's not cool and where I think
is slash as a closing brace that's not
cool
but that said okay I hope the Yeti
wizard said you could fix it by using a
custom keyboard layout see now we're
getting back into what are we getting
back into here well open source and
source configure configurability yes so
could I close my eyes and forget about
the the icons that are printed on the
buttons right and actually pre and
reprogram the keys to work the way I
actually expect them to I don't even
mean this is not me being picky and
being like oh I really want this latch
to be there no I type 180 words a minute
I'm not screwing around I'm not holding
pushing a new key exactly yeah so you
could probably just wipe their
expectations right off the board and
download a new one in bingo bango this
was not my idea thank you yeah you know
I think a remap is definitely in order
and that maybe come
feature on category five so out of the
box so my first impressions and sasshi
you can share yours as well but my first
impressions are this looks wonderful yes
sorry for the focus their camera guy is
not paying attention because camera guy
is digital it looks really really good
and it is light it feels like something
I can just throw in my bag right it's
solid state there's no moving parts yeah
you want to put a pine 64 logo on there
yeah I think it's possible okay and that
brings up an interesting comment that I
would share sasha is that what do you
notice that it's plane not plane but not
branded it doesn't feel like the stupid
Apple logo right like the stupid like
I've got my Lenovo over here with a
stupid Lenovo low well it just looks
like hey this is my netbook this is my
notebook it's just very it's subtle yes
it's it's it says hey look I'm a pine
book but it's not presumptuous yeah
specifications wise I mean this has
stereo speakers which we're gonna get
into we're gonna see if they are as bad
as some folks have said but I mean
that's not really what we're looking at
being that this is the programmers the
tinkerers notebook it does have an arm
64-bit processor we're gonna look at
that in a couple of moments time and and
two gigabytes of memory but we do have
to take a really quick break when we
come back that's what we're gonna
actually fire this thing up yeah we're
gonna see what comes on it because this
the first time we've ever been in the
box right we don't know what's gonna
happen as soon as we push go
like wait a few moments we're loading
things or whatever I'll change who knows
it could be well so if you want to find
out what a new pine book is gonna look
like out of the box fired up for the
first time well you want to stick around
and see with us what our first
impressions are and in addition to that
we're gonna look at some of the
specifications as well and find out just
how great this thing is for 99 bucks
stick around welcome back to category 5
technology TV during the break we are
looking at your laptop which is right
can I turn it around but mine also fails
the Robie tip well we are in Canada and
your laptop is in fact a French keyboard
so enter key is in the wrong spot the
slash keys in the wrong spot but at
least accessible but yeah this stuff is
in French that explains it oh my
goodness but it does drive me nuts as
somebody who has been typing or like
when I look at laptops and when I buy
laptops I specifically look at the
keyboard so that's very very important
to me because I just typed too fast and
when I move from computer to computer I
don't I don't want to have to think okay
I'm on this computer now so the keys are
here right I need to everything needs to
be the same from system to system that's
very very important when you type as
fast as I do so you sort of remind me
sorry did you ever watch Big Bang Theory
I try Oh so Sheldon who that is I do
yeah he's like a spot on the couch it's
his spot and he really loves that one
spot and it's like a big deal I don't
really watch the show but I feel like
you are like that with my eccentric like
him with the keyboard situation you're
like this is my layout kind of like mine
but it makes sense I'm married makes
sense
okay can I just show you just with the
pine book here now I mentioned that it's
a little bit smaller than I was
expecting and I say that with almost a
pleasant surprise
like it's like wow and the pictures I
thought it was bigger right right
so if I look at my Lenovo ThinkPad here
and then put this next to it can you see
the difference like this is the
difference folks so this is not a big
ThinkPad this is just a standard size
think pad and I imagine you can see kind
of the difference there but it is quite
small right it's very lightweight and
and I'm kind of happy about that as far
as backpack yeah if I'm gonna be writing
or coding if I want to sit at Starbucks
with the free Wi-Fi and just sit there
coding something brilliant right one of
the things I've also gotten into lately
is using Google remote desktop so did
this is the chrome remote desktop in
order to access my video production
system so using that I can use a less
powerful system in order to do things
like video editing because I'm actually
remoting into a more powerful system
utilizing the resources of that more
powerful system and on something much
lighter weight much more portable much
cheaper much more disposable if you will
I don't like to use the word disposable
but disposable in the sense that hey if
somebody stole this from me and I was
using it like that you're not losing
your video editing it's all on my more
powerful system that I access remotely
through this Wi-Fi Smurfs it makes sense
right
so can we fire this up can we jump over
here Sasha and you can join me and let's
actually see how this thing how this
looks as we as we power this on for the
very first time so there's a power
button right here which I presume I'm
gonna just push and let's see it's
making lights have come on yeah
I do see light do we see anything on the
screen
there's our cursor thermal noise target
okay dad then what nothing what's next
that's it
that's all there is come on come on oh
now there's a tiny dot is there no is
there no yeah you were seeing things no
see there we go
whatever that is this is our first time
in two folks so now okay I'm gonna grab
my notes here Saturday and and just so I
can share a little bit of the
specifications so what we're looking at
now the the screen is 11.6 inch and as
you know from our note that we had this
has been upgraded to 1080p the processor
is an a53 64-bit processor the same as
the a 64 single board computer as we've
shown here today and it looks like it's
booted up and ready to go well I haven't
connected it to the internet yet so
that's Firefox trying to load up a
Firefox browser but I haven't connected
it to the Wi-Fi yet so as we shown it's
very lightweight very compact and
portable now it comes with some form of
KDE Linux installed pre-installed but it
is compatible with many different Linux
distributions including B as well as I
should say BSD Android as well like you
can imagine you can install Android on
here on this pine book that's fantastic
the GPU is a Mallee 400 MP - and it does
have 2 gigabytes of LD LP ddr3 RAM now
let's get a quick look at kind of how
things work here now there's no
touchscreen so you know for 99 bucks
you're not gonna expect something like
that you can see as I'm touching it yeah
it's a little bit it's pretty solid like
it's bright it'll hold up oh yeah okay
once it's there okay so let's get in
here I'm gonna use my finger here on the
nice little yeah the trackpad here which
is multi-touch okay so let's close out
it doesn't seem to support clicking how
do you well I can actually push down on
the button that doesn't support like
touch sense stuff all right let's get in
to my Wi-Fi so down here let's see ok it
did take that click there we go so we
see some Wi-Fi network so we do have 2.4
gigahertz Wi-Fi out of the box it also
has Bluetooth 4.0
as I mentioned 16 gigabytes of emmc is
built in and is also upgradable and you
can boot from a microSD card so if you
want to stick like 128 gig Kingston SS
SD in there that would be a good way to
go and you'll be able to boot from that
put on any operating system I'm just
going to get us on to Wi-Fi here so
let's just jump right on to our private
network here that's going to take some
getting used to I can't just tap right
the touchpad that may be operating
system centric it may not be the the
system itself pardon me oh say the
backspace keys in the wrong spot ok
let's try again I hope there's not a lot
of slashes in our password our password
is giant and setting network address if
I got the password right it should be
yeah got the address connected ok so
we're on now the backspace key first
thing I notice is it's the wrong it's in
the wrong spot so that's not cool but
that's the keyboard I mean you may get
used to that I'm not keen on having to
get used to that because I am such a
typer
but if you're if you're not
opposed to that then I guess that's okay
that it's gonna take some getting used
to that I can't just tap to click
somehow it's not doing anything
so I'm tapping like I would normally tap
my touchpad and it's not taking the
touch however there are like push down
buttons so if I push it clicks but it
doesn't seem to sense when I just tapped
the the touchpad so there goes ok so
there's a handful of things already kind
of pre right like here let's get into
category five dot T V at least the enter
key is in the right spot secure
connection failed well why is that that
would presumably mean that the date is
wrong on the pine book so let's take a
quick Boo is the keyboard backlit Yeti
wizard ass no no there's no lighting on
the keyboard itself it is just a I mean
it feels good but you will have to get
used to the fact that the keys are in
sometimes the wrong place it says it's
December now what's the date today today
is the 5th of June 5th of June 2019 and
this says it is December somethin's how
do I get into all right say it's a date
from right-click adjust date and time
yeah this so the data is wrong that's
why I'm getting secure connection failed
yes it's not letting me onto my website
it says that the date is December 8th
2018 ok so keep that in mind if you get
that error message that secure
connection is not available it's it's
just that your clock is wrong and that's
because this is brand-new right out of
the box right nobody's ever set the
clock before
sorry June 5th 5th 2019
yes 1951 1951 that's the time oh not the
year okay so 1951 so we're looking at
750 51 so how do I set the clock on this
it doesn't seem to - now I'm gonna apply
the date at least time zone what does it
say time zone thing where you just get
the date and time for the internet
multi-touch is working yes I presume so
Somali touch is working so if I put my
two fingers down and I know this is a
little difficult for you to see at home
but if I put my two fingers down I am
able to scroll so I'm able to scroll
this list with two fingers that's good
so that is a bit of a bonus because
sometimes that's not really working out
of the box let's see if I can find
Toronto with a quick search oh my
goodness having the backspace in the
wrong spot is gonna drive me nuts I just
said to rhabdo Toronto there it is oh
and I got a click I actually have to
push down with a tactile button ok try
again now does it come out
hello come on try again yeah it says
it's 123 am 123 am Sasha why did it
divert it reverted to December how do
you save your changes yes exactly
okay let's go to June 5th 2019 apply
does it doesn't know no it just jump as
soon as I hit apply it jumped to
December April May June 5th okay
did that work
bringing back up the calendar it keeps
jumping back to December 2018 Sasha
so that's nonsense so if I instead let's
try going to bald nerd dot-com and is it
gonna let me there yes okay so if I go
bald nerd calm slash now I have to find
the slash key here Sasha press Chester
function
nerd gasm x' and you all remember why
uses ntp dates yes it's all good but I'm
saying it's not even setting oh when I
set it using a GUI so I'm gonna click on
in my nerdgasm so bald nerd calm slash
orgasms click on set time and date you
guys see that you probably have trouble
reading that you want to read it to them
secure connection failed because the
time and date are incorrect so this is a
problem that we are you know that we run
into on single board computers
traditionally right so keep in mind that
this is in all essences a single board
computer right think about a Raspberry
Pi or some single board computer and
stick it into a laptop form factor right
that's what the pine book is Marsh man
knows it knows how to set the time and
date
does he not he does you go dude it says
push the buttons
hashtag time date control set time
whether you do it like that okay so I'm
gonna fade to black and when we come
back the date and time are gonna be
magically set back from the black
now Marsh man shared in the chat room
that we needed to type a command in the
route terminal which is time/date CTL
set - time and then apostrophe 2019 - oh
six - oh five space 19 : 57 for 757 p.m.
and then another ' now the apostrophe
drove me nuts because the apostrophe is
in fact function key - that's how you
find the apostrophe key and it reported
to me that it could not do that it said
failed to set time automatic time
synchronization is enabled so I actually
brought up the calendar again as if I
was going to adjust the date and time
and there's a little checkbox that
allows me to disable it says set date
and time automatically which I turned
off and then I ran that command with the
up arrow and it did in fact work and so
presumably if I jump back over here now
oh yes I have to actually push down and
try again date and time are now correct
so if we're lucky if things work there
we go our website in fact loads ladies
and gentlemen so let's bring this up
make that a little bigger oh yeah I'm
gonna have to get used to that and I
have to actually physically push down so
scrolling down so this is the pine book
out-of-the-box experience a little bit
of configuration to set it up and get up
and going but all in all I mean it is an
operational laptop and truth be told I
understand that this is not my daily
driver this is my hey I want to actually
code on this thing so I want to have
access to Bosch I want to have access to
Nano I want to have access to maybe G at
it and things like that so you know all
this internet stuff and whether YouTube
plays well which I am interested in but
oh there we go
it looks like it's playing actually
pretty well on on YouTube where's my
cursor there it is let's bring that up
fullscreen there we go okay fullscreen
it's choppy
can you guys hear that so if you plugged
in a head it's like a headphone or set
headphones it would sound better
oh yeah and you know what these days
Sasha no interesting that okay so I'm
looking at the volume and the volume is
in fact up full blast on everything and
it's not very loud so not not a good
sound system it'll wake anybody up in
the night not really a reasonable sound
stuff for video editing or viewing or
anything like that however it does look
like the framerate when in Windows and I
say Windows went in why is it there we
go
okay so I've pod oh now it's unpossible
there it's paused this sound quality is
not very good built from the built-in
speakers however as you're saying Sasha
you're gonna use headphones yes there is
a headphone jack so unlike a iPhone
right there's a headphone jack
but there's Bluetooth 4.0 as well so I
don't know about you but I've really
taken to only using bluetooth headphones
these days right and so it's gonna work
fairly well for that type of purpose
right so if I am wearing my headphones
it's gonna work pretty well often would
you be really relying on the speaker's
anyway except for like a ding yeah okay
well let me explain to you what I'm
gonna what for me what a pine book would
mean to me yes so it's an ARM
architecture yeah I program
ARM based distributions so to me I'm
going to be in bash I'm gonna be editing
things in nano and I'm probably gonna
have an mp3 playing in the background
for music on my headphones right so that
I do have music but it's coming from
like bluetooth
it's not coming out of the speakers I
don't care about the desktop and in fact
I would be just as happy with this as
long as it has Wi-Fi and accessibility
to SSH that I could actually just have a
terminal full screen I'd be quite happy
with that for what it is but for $99 I
mean this looks like and feels like a
really good device so looking at the
keyboard so people will say well you
seem pretty ticked off about the
keyboard yeah yeah I really kind of am I
do not like when keys are not where
they're supposed to be it's okay if
they're you know like your keyboard is
French it makes sense maybe this is
something going on I don't know who puts
a slash key on a function Alt key I
don't know I don't I don't know maybe
but that's not a that's not a slight
again spine 64 right I want to be it's
really a fine line here because I want
to be I want to be clear that this is a
really impressive rig for 99 bucks
it is amazing yeah yes but but I want to
be clear about what it's not as well yes
right what it is is perfect for me
sitting in Bosch doing some programming
doing the little bit of things online
maybe like accessing my email and things
like that it's lightweight the battery
is a 5 volt 10,000 milliamp hour battery
so I expect that the battery life is
gonna be really quite reasonable and so
far tonight we've seen no signs of any
kind of wear on the battery I don't know
if it says what kind of battery life
what I see in the bottom icons okay it
says there's 97 percent battery but it
doesn't say it says it's discharging it
doesn't say how long oh it's gonna last
for do you know and when I see the
display brightness I noticed that Linus
had mentioned that there was a no
display brightness option out of the box
but I do see a display brightness when I
clicked on the battery icon
does that well oh it does brighten it oh
yeah that's where that's where she be
that's where it is and it doesn't say
fur yeah that makes a lot of difference
it doesn't say how long it does say that
it's a 97% right but that's it
okay so but that's I mean hey we've had
it up and running for a good half-hour
anyways and just running away there you
but it's lightweight it's a solid state
there's no moving parts so I'm not
afraid to you know be a little bit rough
and tumble with it to some degree right
and I closed it on purpose while it was
on because I'm curious as to what
happened what happens when I open it up
again does it just put itself to sleep
or does it turn itself right off well I
see a mouse cursor here okay I just came
back and it's sitting at a it's got a
clock and it's asking for a password I
didn't ever enter a password unlocking
failed so there must be a password that
comes with it that we're gonna have to
find out of the box but you can of
course visit the pine 64 website pine 64
org in order to get other distributions
for it you don't you're not limited to
just what's included on the pine book
but you can install various other
operating systems as well you know tons
of open source platforms that are
available for it and lots of people
working on making this working really
really well but for what it is
hey for 99 bucks you could give it to me
easily to play on you know I yeah I kind
of feel that way like I feel like as a
programmer this is a really nice thing
to just kind of carry around with me
yeah but yeah for the kids for accessing
discord and various like online stuff a
lot of games are on like Chrome so
install Chrome on it and there you go
there's your I mean it's not even a
Chromebook this is a full Linux laptop
that is great for 99 bucks and you know
there you go you see how
sleek that is sweet that's the pine buck
from pine sixty-four dot org and of
course I'll give you a hot link a cat5
dot TV slash pine book
[Music]
[Applause]
