looking at the pine Book Pro feature
from last week a lot of you have started
receiving your pine book pro shipments
and so these little quirks are coming up
and we're starting to see some comments
coming in bp9 was posting in our discord
server today which is why I have my
phone with me I'm not being antisocial
I'm being social see how I did that
bp9 was having trouble with the keyboard
the D key was kind of sticky and not
quite working and found that he was able
to very carefully pry up that key and
get some compressed air underneath and
blowout underneath of the the contact
and for some reason that fixed it for
him so I'm glad to hear that the D key
is now working bp9 also mentioning that
while I showed on my pine Book Pro that
a quick tap on the pine logo and f/11
would enable and disable Wi-Fi and that
seemed to work fine for for our
demonstration last week he's mentioning
that on his notebook on his pine Book
Pro he had to actually hold in that key
sequence for three seconds so if you're
finding that it's not having an impact
perhaps that's the difference follow the
same tutorial from last week on how to
get the Wi-Fi working on your new pine
Book Pro but try holding it in for three
seconds if my demonstration of really
quickly tapping didn't do it for you so
that's good to know as well
the final thing the bp9 mentions is that
his keyboard came preset up with the UK
keyboard layout well that could be
frustrating because your keys are not
gonna be in the right spot
so basically ISO layout versus ANSI and
so you'd have trouble entering your
password and things like that
interestingly enough when I booted up
and fired up Manjaro for the first time
it asked me whether I wanted ISO or ANSI
so I went through that process of
telling it what keyboard layout I had
and it worked just fine for me but in
vp9 s case that wasn't the case and he
was very quickly able to go in and just
change the keyboard settings within the
menu system found his way there says it
wasn't a big deal it was a simple fix
that I didn't even need the
Wiki for since I knew how to change the
layout already and bp9 also incidentally
from our community mentioning that the
wiki has proven itself to be a fantastic
resource and you'll find that at pine
sixty-four org and it really is it's a
community driven site and so as problems
come up folks are posting there on the
wiki in kind of like a documentation
format to be able to help other folks
who are encountering those same issues
Ryan Howard is on our youtube channel
and says he's unable to get the OS for
the pine book Pro burnt onto an SD card
he asks please how do you do this a
video would be great well here you are
this is video so I I will do this thing
alright so the first thing that we need
to determine is whether we want to use
an SD card or the built-in emmc and
there are a couple of things that would
be kind of a deciding factor SD cards
are a really really easy way to be able
to switch back and forth between
multiple distros you got to kind of pop
you push in if you have one in there and
then it pops out so that's my SD card
right there I think I just ejected my OS
while it's on oh don't do that
that's like pulling your hard drive but
the built-in emmc can be a little bit
more challenging to to set up but think
about this one of the things and I'll
touch on that I'll explain that but one
of the things I like about SD cards and
the ability to boot from an SD card yeah
sure enough I just crashed my system I'm
gonna reboot the nice thing about being
able to boot from an SD card is let's
say you've got a household where
everybody shares the same devices so you
could give each family member for
example or maybe you're an education
facility and you want to give each
student or each teacher their own SD
card so you set up the operating system
on that SD card and everyone who goes to
use it with the power off boots from
their SD card and all their applications
everything else is set up on a per
user basis and nobody affects any other
user because the SD card is in fact
their booting harddrive now I just
proved that doing what I just did while
stupid did not destroy my pint book Pro
operating system on my SD card so that's
a good thing so that's kind of cool
because with your own SD card you can
just boot it up and have your own
settings so I like that
if you've settled on the distro that
you'd prefer it may be time to install
it on an emmc but it can be more
involved as I mentioned because it
requires sometimes opening the pine book
pro and you've got to use a special
adapter to flash it but the process
itself is the same even in that case so
if you have the adapter you're gonna
burn to an emmc I used the term burn
using an adapter plugged into the USB
port or something like that
and it's going to be the same process
you're gonna use the same software you
may have to use a different image
depending on which distro you're looking
at but speaking of there are some
distros such as Manjaro that actually
offer an installer so if you burn it to
an SD card then you boot the pint book
pro you can then install it to the emmc
so you don't have to open up the pine
book Pro you don't have to buy an
adapter to be able to flash any MMC card
so that's pretty brilliant you've got to
look through the the wiki or the website
of the individual distro that you're
looking at so we're gonna head on over
to pine 64 dot org and choose the distro
that that we're going to download so you
just go pine 64 dot org click on the
wiki and go to pine book pro software
now I'm gonna go with Manjaro because we
know that it's tried-and-true it's the
one that's coming on it and I've
actually downloaded Debian on my SD card
so I'm booting from an SD card normally
so this is Debian running off of the SD
card we're going to change that in a
couple of moments so next step is we
need to get a tool to do the
we're gonna use a tool called B'Elanna
both Villena both bad lana how do you
say it I don't know and I'll explain why
bal enna Boettcher it used to be called
just etcher and as a TV show host those
were the days that I miss Valena be a L
e n a and the reason it throws me off is
because I am an old-school Trekkie and
so I always want to say B'Elanna
thinking of B'Elanna Torres
so think about B'Elanna and then think
no it's the opposite of that bal enna
dot io / h ER now while I'm going to be
doing this on my Windows machine you can
also do this on Linux or Mac as well so
B'Elanna
that battle in that dilemma dot io /
etcher download it for your platform ok
first thing I want to do on my machine
is make sure that no removable media is
connected to the computer be sure okay
this is step one backup pull all of your
USB drives this means unplugging the USB
storage anything that is plugged into
the computer SD cards whatever if you've
got an SD card reader or something like
that reason I do that is because we want
to prevent accidentally wiping the wrong
storage if you've got a couple of USB
drives plugged in you may accidentally
select the wrong one and remember that
this is a destructive process so you're
gonna lose any data that's currently on
the drive
so in can I call it etcher in etcher
select the image file that you
downloaded in our case it's min Jarrah
plug your card into a card reader or
again if you're using emmc use the
adapter and you do need to buy that
adapter separately etcher should detect
and pre-fill in the select drive section
the moment that you plug in your drive
click flash to begin and on windows it's
going to ask me to click to allow the
administrator access linux or mac are
instead going to request my root
password to proceed as I mentioned this
is a destructive process it's going to
wipe whatever's on that car
so make sure that you want to proceed
okay and then do so all right once the
image has been written to the card
etcher
will verify that the write was
successful this may take a few minutes
so hang tight and once that's done if it
said you were successful you can remove
that card insert it into your pine Book
Pro and again I'm using the SD card so
you simply plug that into the slot on
the side if you're using the emmc you're
going to need to install that internally
power on your pine Book Pro and it
should automatically boot from the SD
card if you're using a MMC make sure
that no SD card is plugged in before you
power on otherwise you're not going to
have access it's going to boot from try
to boot from SD so there we go
I'm trying to brighten the screen can't
quite do it you can't quite see but I am
looking at the Manjaro login prompt
fantastic there we have it we are now
booted and running our new distro in our
case from a micro SD and if you have
trouble try using a different SD card
first and foremost okay just in case the
card has any problems sometimes there's
compatibility issues I haven't
encountered it yet on a pine Book Pro
but it could happen so have a second
card handy that's the first thing you
want to rule out and also if you still
have trouble as I mentioned get into the
pine 64 community resources like their
forum check out their wiki join their
discord server or you can even hop on to
their their subreddit as well they've
got an official one for the full list of
all of the places that you can get help
visit their website at pine 64 dot org
[Music]
