welcome to category five technology TV
it's just me Robbie here this week
because hey I've told sash and Jeff to
stay home we are under a severe winter
storm here in Ontario Canada that guy
who just drove by is really brave
because they're telling us to stay off
the roads
but I'm here this week so we're gonna do
a show just kind of like old-school
style is just you and me tonight we're
gonna be looking at that Nass unit that
I've been putting together and we're
gonna see if we can actually create a
little bit of an ass system from an old
roid xu4 it's kind of cool because we're
gonna be able to save a lot of money not
just on the equipment itself but also on
the electricity moving forward stick
around
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku kodi
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 dot TV
welcome to the show everybody
it is brutal outside here in central
Ontario I arrived here at the studio
just before the storm really hit and it
is looking like it's gonna be a white
Christmas here in Ontario but now our
studio is in Barry and we're about an
hour north of Toronto and I've given
everybody the week off and it just
happens to be me because I I got here
just before the announcement was made
and I can't really send myself home so
here I am folks we're gonna have a great
show before I get into it though I want
to remind you to subscribe to us on
YouTube and click the bell that's gonna
make sure that you receive notifications
anytime that we're live or any time that
we have new videos that we post on
YouTube so make sure you subscribe to us
another thing about that is that it it
lets us know that you appreciate what we
do here category 5 TV as the subscriber
numbers increase that is a great
encouragement to us and another way that
you can support us and show us that you
love us is by becoming a patron so head
on over to patreon comm slash category 5
that's a really cool way to support us
by just throwing a little bit in the tip
jar and that gives you exclusive access
to behind-the-scenes video our vlog as
well
and you also gain access to the live
recordings each and every week so what
we take from the live show we edit out
all the bloopers and the behind the
scenes and everything else before we
post it publicly live but by that point
we've already posted the live feed to
the patrons and as you know anything
that gets posted on the Internet is
there forever there's no going back so
our patrons gain access to that
indefinitely so make sure that you that
you you know if you want to support us
that's a great way to do it patreon.com
slash category-five over the past couple
of weeks I and the team have been
speaking about our what we're gonna call
my Nass your Nass
- but cat5 dot TV / - is where I'm going
to put all the links for the products
that we're gonna be looking at the
discussion has been surrounding the
decision okay well do we go with USB 3.0
so that we can also gain the eSATA port
which is going to give us up to six
gigabits per second or do we go straight
to USB 3.1 Rev - which theoretically can
can give us up to 10 gigabits per second
however the one caveat about that is
that the device that we're gonna be
connecting at - which is an ode Royd Xu
for single board computer is only
capable of USB 3.0 with you ASP so
that's gonna be five gigabits per second
that's a lot of numbers to be thrown out
at yeah it's a lot of numbers for old
Rabi to remember in this bald head of
his but it all makes sense to me the
decision was made though to go future
ready and go with USB 3.1 Rev - so we're
gonna be able to access our Nass unit at
five gigabits per second from the from
the Odroid xu4 but keep in mind our
connectivity to our Nass is going to be
based on Gigabit Ethernet anyways
because the Ethernet port on that board
is is thousand megabits per second or
whatever so even though I can like
communicate with the drives at five
gigabits a second the communication then
to the Xu
is only going to be one gigabit a second
so the theoretical result of that is
that the communication between the
brains of our Nass is still going to be
five times as fast as our actual
throughput to that to and from that Nass
unit itself so I've got this this device
at cat5 dot TV slash my Nass and let's
get a quick look at it now I've put the
drives I've put two drives in here
obviously not very stable II will work
on that in just a second this guy just
fell right out that's ok ok so I've got
2 4 terabyte drives that I've just
simply plugged into the back backplane
because I was just kind of playing
around with this just before the show to
see how it operated and I didn't even
really turn it on I just wanted to see
that I could plug these drives in and
see how they connect so I have 2 4
terabyte drives from my old backup unit
and the idea behind this is I'm going to
be able to use this device as basically
just multiple drives connected to my
computer so this is an ass in clone an
ass enclosure this is a hard drive
enclosure there's a big difference when
you're shopping around for these kinds
of things so keep this in mind what we
opted for what I opted for is not an ass
unit that's not what we want we want a
device that gives me access to these
drives as external hard drives so this
has four SATA back planes the backplane
will take up to four SATA drives and
with that I'm going to see four new hard
drives just like as if I plugged in a
USB external hard drive on my computer
that's the theory behind it so there's
no raid happening here there's no
mirroring there's nothing it's just four
drives connected to my Linux machine the
xu4 so then using the amazing software
that comes with Linux I'm going to be
able to give me because Linux is
like the server OS right we're gonna
learn this week and we've learned from
the top500 that like Linux is where it's
at for servers so because they're gonna
be showing up as for individual SATA
external hard drives I can do whatever I
want with them so we're gonna play
around with mirroring creating arrays
we're gonna be checking out all the
various things that we can do but this
device will take up to four Drive so we
can decide how we want to segment the
data across those four drives I've just
got two drives for the sake of the
demonstration today and this is what it
looks like so there we have it and it's
just simply a very basic SATA back plane
that gives me access to these drives so
as far as the mounting goes there is
really no there's no drive trays or
anything like like that there are these
little plastic guys that are gonna go on
the front of the drive which just gives
it a little bit more pressure to push it
into the backplane so these just go in
like this drive number one and that
squeezes right into the backplane drive
number two both four terabytes just
because these are polls from my my old
backup see here you can see that better
than I can and there we go straight in
there and then this guy here is just
gonna go right on top and clip in like
so I think I've almost got that it clips
in anyways and then you close the door
and you're good to go
so should we fire it up and just kind of
see how this is going to show up on our
computer I've got my laptop here and
what I'm gonna do is let's quickly let's
zoom in first of all and do a LS slash
dev slash SD star I just want to see
what's there so I only have one hard
drive in my laptop and that is my SD a
let's also bring up I'm gonna zoom out
here a little bit and I'm going to bring
up G Part II D
just so that we can get a look at what
this is going to look like as far as
hard drives go so there is my SD
a-and that's the only hard drive
available in my computer so to power it
on there's just a power button here and
what I have is I've got USB 3.1 a USB C
to a USB standard a cable to plug into
my laptop and that is the same pardon me
the same cable I'm going to use to
connect it into my into my ex--you for
now I just heard a ding on my laptop so
let's see what's what's going on here
so in G part ed what do we see I'm gonna
go G Part II D refresh devices over here
now I have to 3.6 4 terabyte drives is
what it's showing both unallocated space
that's good news all right over here
let's zoom in a little bit and let's run
that same command and now we see we have
s DB SD c SD d and SD e now I imagine C
we're seeing s DD and SD e so understand
these are drive allocations as far as
how Linux segments the devices so we've
got SD a as my actual internal hard
drive on my laptop SD B is presumably
the first slot in this i if they are
sequential SDC would be the second SD d
would be the third and SD e would be the
fourth if I'm right then we're gonna
find that we're able to well I mean we
can confirm that again by going into
gparted that's a quick way to confirm it
anyways well if I knew my password and
entered it correctly yes s DB and SDC so
s DB is going to be my first drive in
the in the chassis SDC is going to be my
second so what am I gonna do well first
of all I want to format these x FS so
I'm gonna need a couple of tools so sudo
su and login as super user and I'm gonna
go apt update move this over a little
bit for you folks at home do I want to
accept these changes why yes yes I
all right apt install XFS Prague's yeah
look at that I've already got it okay so
what file system would you consider for
your Nass you might think ext4
you might even think like maybe butter
FS now there's a couple of things that
that I would consider when I'm creating
this array first of all X FS is a modern
file system that has a virtually
limitless number of files that I can
have on my Nass so on my file system so
it's unbelievable
like it's like ^ we can't even count
that high it allows massive amount and
like massive capacity drives and it's a
modern journaling file system now butter
FS it's a great file system I love
butter FS however I still feel like
there is some concern some worry about
butter FS with unexpected power loss and
sometimes that can happen we've had
power outages here in our local
community where the Power has been out
so long that the UPS finally gives up
and if that happens I don't want to have
data loss or parity issues so X FS is
able to maintain its file system much
more adequately because butter FS has an
issue where it can actually lose parity
data if the power goes out so that's
something that I want to avoid in
myarray because if I ever lost any
parity data in my array then if a drive
failed then I would have problems
rebuilding my data and I could
potentially have some data loss so
that's exactly what I want to avoid so
now that I have X FS Prague's installed
which gives me make FS now let's
partition our drive so and notice I'm
doing this in the terminal folks I want
to do this in the terminal so that you
can see how it's actually done we could
use the GUI but you I want you to be
able to do this in the
and also after we know that it's gonna
be dev slash SDB that's my first one
okay so if I do a P I can see that this
is for terabyte drive see they're three
point seven terabytes and then it's like
four point blah blah blah bytes it's all
like rounded to 102 four so we're gonna
create a new partition now if you need
help just push em and enter because M
stands for what help yes that makes a
lot of sense but you see of course the
first command that we're going to need
is n for a new partition so press n
enter partition number I'm just gonna
hit enter and then first sector enter
and then last sector enter because I
want to use the whole drive do you want
to remove the signature and what's that
ask me hey this Drive already has a
filesystem on it and it is a encrypted
crypto Luc's signature probably created
with Luke's dump as you are already
aware because that's my old backup
member I mentioned that but I know that
I have now got a new backup so this one
is redundant and not needed and
redundant to the point where it can be
destroyed and I'm not losing anything so
do I want to remove that signature yeah
okay there we go so I'm gonna write it
out with W and I'm done so now if I do
an F disk - l / dev / s DB I should see
that I now have s DB 1 which is my first
partition on s DB the first drive in my
chassis and it is a full 3.7 terabyte
and it's set up for a Linux file system
now I can't mount it yet because there's
there is no file system so make FS so m
k FS dot x FS because we chose the x FS
filesystem you could also do the X t4
right but we're gonna do x FS and I'm
gonna go dev s DB 1 now one of the
things is really really nice about x FS
is the speed at which it formats the
drive this is a 4 terabyte drive and I
would say it's probably going to be able
to format that drive like in a tenth of
the time that it would take for ext4 or
something similar so so far
I have one drive that is formatting XFS
I've partitioned it it has a full four
terabyte partition will say 3.7
terabytes and I'm formatting it with XFS
using the Linux terminal so this could
be my and and part of why I want to show
you this in the terminal is because this
could be my X Xu for which I could be
SSH tin to and this could be connected
to the the external USB that's already
finished formatting for terabytes can
you believe that done so now I could
actually mount that so if I created a
mount point so let's go /mnt let's make
a mount point make der in MNT I'm going
to call this I'll just call it s DB 1
just for fun because it's easy to
understand what that means and I think
when I was learning Linux as a rookie
Linux user
I think mount points were something that
really confused me and so if you've
never worked with mount points before in
the terminal or you're not sure how this
works feel free to ask questions but
I'll do my best to explain it
Linux works a lot different than say
Windows Windows uses like when you plug
in a drive it's like your C Drive
it's your D Drive it's your II drive and
so on now Linux you can plug in ten
drives and none of them have a drive
letter they can just be like one of them
can be your your boot and one of them
can be your root and one of them can be
your home folders one of them can be
your backup and they're all connected
through the file system structure so in
this case I'm gonna be putting that one
drive on /mnt slash SD be one because I
created a mount point
aka a folder at that point but where
where it can get confusing is when I
first started learning this stuff I
would I would go into SD be one now that
I've created this folder and I might put
some files there but then I wouldn't
even realize that the drive is not
currently mounted so any files that I
put there are in fact going on my SD a
write the built-in hard drive on my
laptop because I have not yet connected
this drive to that mount point so the
way that I'm gonna do that
and and there are ways to permanently do
that but to temporarily do that just to
test I'm going to go
mount slash dev slash SDB one because we
know that that's our first partition on
that drive which we formatted XFS and
then I'm going to mount that to /mnt
slash SD b1 so what I'm telling it is
mount this partition SD be one in dev to
this mount point
aka folder SD be one hit enter now if I
go into SD b1 it looks exactly the same
however I anything I do here is actually
going on the external hard drive so now
if I go back one folder and I unmount
that which is the command is actually
you mount SD b1 now if I go back into
stb-1 and do an LS look it's empty
well where'd my files go because right
now I'm actually looking at SD a because
it's not mounted go back again and type
my mount command go back in now I am in
fact looking at the external hard drive
so that test file that I created is on
the very first drive in this nasty I see
in our chassis are external chassis
right there and if it's not mounted I
won't be able to access those files so
there's one other thing that I can do
which is very very helpful because what
can happen let's unmount that SD be one
so now it's not mounted okay SD be one
if I look now what can happen is I'm
gonna touch test two okay so now there's
a file called test2 now if I go back and
I'd run my mount command watch what can
happen
do you notice okay so test two is there
right now go into SD b1 and do an LS and
it's test well where the heck did test
to go
I've lost my file no I haven't because
test2 was on SDA because it wasn't
mounted so now I get confused this is
where I was at when I was just a rookie
because if it wasn't mounted or if I
forgot to mount my drive or if I didn't
mount it correctly or I put it I mounted
in the wrong place
I put files on the mount point unmounted
so they wouldn't end up on my external
drive so why does that matter
what if I ran a backup what if I was
backing up my SD a drive to my ex to my
SD b1 but it wasn't mounted I would
actually be copying the files from my SD
a to my SD a the same hard drive so then
that hard drive crashes my backup is
useless absolutely useless so how can I
fix that well if I unmount that drive so
you mount SD b1 because I'm in the mount
folder go back in there I'm gonna remove
test2 and now go back and now watch this
chatter CH attr plus I that means make
it immutable make it so that it can't be
written to and then SD b1 okay so now if
I go into stb-1 and I try again
to touch test 2 it says no such file or
directory 1 is it well I know there's a
file in that directory
why can't I touch my file oh I haven't
mount in my directory yet I haven't
mounted my my drive so it's important to
do that because now I can't write
anything to the mount point so now it
will only work my backup will only
function if the mount if the drive is in
fact mounted so let's jump back here now
that it is immutable I can't do anything
here I can't make a directory in here it
will say operation not permit it go up a
folder and now let's run our mount
command again so I'm pushing control R
to be able to go back in my history and
now if I notice it mounted just fine now
I'm gonna go back into stb-1 and I'm
gonna now you see my test file let's try
touching test to touch I can't type and
talk test two there we go so now you
notice that it did work because it is
mounted all right so this is in fact
stb-1 the external hard drive now and if
you're not sure if it's mounted watch
this mount it gives me a list of all the
drives that are mounted well that's a
whole bunch of cruft so mount pipe grep
SD be one that just gives me the one
line that shows stb-1 so this shows me
that dev stb-1 is mounted on /mnt slash
stb-1 well what happens if I unmount it
and run that exact same command no
output because it's not currently
mounted so I know I need to mount it do
it again
there we go now run that command so what
is it doing it's its mount which gives
me an output of all of the mounted stuff
right but then I'm grapping which is
basically the Linux equivalent of hey
search that output for this SD be 1 and
hit enter and that could be anything I
could search for dev and it will give me
everything that contains the word dev
well no I don't need that I just want
SDP 1 and that gives me and it's a
little bit cluttered when I have it like
that but there you go so you can see
that I have dev s DB 1 on MN t / stb-1
and the type is XFS that's my file
system and it's ready to go so I have my
first drive ready to go in my Nass
second drive is going to be exactly the
same except we know that it is my SDC so
you go through those same steps in order
to create that now because this is not a
raid unit I can put in 4 terabyte drives
I got my - 4 terabyte drives I can also
put in a 1 terabyte in addition to that
and I can put in a 500 gig so I can use
a mix of drives and it's gonna eat one
is going to show up as s TB SDC s de D
and E and and then you're gonna have
access to each of them now with a raid
of course if you had to four terabytes
well you could set those up as a raid 1
but then if you had a 1 terabyte enough
and a 500 gigabyte you couldn't really
connect those together and use them what
we are going to be doing over the course
of this series is we're going to be
demonstrating how we can actually use
this
unit or a unit similar to this in order
to create arrays using Linux tools that
will allow me to intermix drives to be
able to create redundancy we're gonna be
creating all kinds of really cool stuff
so that you can understand the
underlying filesystem idiosyncrasies and
I think even tonight you may have
learned a couple of things please
comment below let me know what you did
learn here and and if anything is a
particular interest that I've spoke on
tonight and and through the course of
the series we're gonna be learning all
kinds of things like that
the little trinkets behind the like the
the UI that we're used to like we may
install like an interface on our NASA
unit and and all we ever see is the web
interface well we're gonna be working
under the hood so that we understand how
it all works and keeping our data safe
so that's pretty cool hey we've got to
take a really quick break I'll be right
back stick right
welcome back this is category five
technology TV now our broadcast is live
even though you're watching this on
demand we do have some questions coming
in in our discord chat first question
comes from Marsh man asking ok how is my
laptop that I'm demonstrating on connect
it to the Nass now I mentioned it at the
top of the show but you may not have
catched it caught it and I'm just gonna
power this off because I have unmounted
it with the you mount command so I'm
just gonna hold in that power button to
power off those drives so I can safely
move it there it goes remember that
these are spinning drives you don't want
to move this while they're spinning
because you can actually cause damage to
the physical platters of the drive there
are needles basically we're gonna call
them think of an old record right like a
record player LPS you've got heads that
hover on a very small cushion of air
overtop of very sensitive magnetic
platters so if I move this while it is
powered on those platters are moving at
7,200 rotations per minute and so if I
move it in such a way that the head
touches the platter scratch data loss
possible hard drive failure so I always
power this off before I move it how am i
connecting it I'm just unplugging the
power here this is the back of the unit
and all I have is a USBC cable ok so
that's what it is on this end now on the
laptop end I'm just gonna unplug that
here this is the other end of that same
cable so I've got USB C and I've got USB
a so this allows me to plug it into a
laptop or any other USB 3.0 device so
that's my Odroid xu4 that's the what we
hope to achieve through the course of
this this project is to actually power
this from a single board computer the
reason that I've chosen the xu4 is
because it supports you ASP and
USB Attached scuzzy protocol which means
it's going to be able to get five
gigabits per second data transfer to the
device unlike standard USB it's gonna be
a lot faster you're looking at a fair
percentage more so so that's how I was
connected this was not an ssh connection
or anything like that this was a direct
USB connection exactly like it will be
with our Odroid xu for reason i'm not
looking at it on a no droid xu for
tonight and I'm actually doing this
using my laptop is strictly for the sake
of the demonstration this is a series of
of demonstrations and projects that are
going to be leading to our mine ass so
cat five dot TV / - is where it's all
going to come together but the Xu 4 is
going to be one of the steps in the
process of creating this unit but I
wanted to show you the kind of
underlying we that we're gonna be
setting things up and I want you to
learn how some of these these little
linux commands work in the terminal as
well because everything is gonna be done
in the terminal any other questions for
us bp9 you're very welcome the foo
calling this - yes right now in this
instant this in this instance this is
direct attached storage the idea is that
we're gonna be taking this - unit and
turning it into a pseudo nas or backup
system using an Xu for so the Xu for is
going to become the brains of this and
then I'm gonna be able to access it as
network attached storage so I'm not
gonna have to plug it into my laptop no
I'm gonna be able to access it through
Wi-Fi through Ethernet and those kinds
of things did I miss any other questions
now I'm watching the chat room on my
phone and so the screen is comparatively
small and if things do tend to kind of
fly by the screen so if there are any
other questions about the project or
what I'm teaching here tonight
I'm wide open great to see everybody
here and appreciate you being here
I think that that was really the the
main question I bp9 yeah okay so you get
it now wondering how I was able to
connect directly to the Nass unit
because it's not an ass and exactly like
the Foose has its direct attached
storage in this instance that's all
going to be changing though and if
you're not familiar with an ex u4o droid
xu4 it is a microcomputer so think of a
Raspberry Pi it's a very very small
computer fits in my pocket right here I
wish I had it with me but there I
actually if you can excuse me for one
moment I can grab one I have one just
off the set here here we go so this is a
no droid Xu for Q and the Q stands for
quiet because it has this massive
heatsink so this is the board that is
going to power our nass unit so when
this becomes an ass this is going to be
the computer the brains that is going to
power it it's got Debian Linux Debian 10
on here on a micro SD right now it's
going to be on emmc and then we're gonna
be setting up some form of mounting in
order to hide this in such a way that
it's going to be part of the unit itself
is something that we can just put into a
room in the you know if you have a
closet or something that you can set
that up and just run on the ethernet
cable to this that has Gigabit Ethernet
that's gonna give you a full access to
all the files and make your backups and
everything else so alright thanks for
the questions everybody I I am welcome I
welcome your questions you can email
live Mac category five dot TV if you
have any more all right
so let's jump right into it here are the
stories that were covering in the
category five dot TV newsroom for the
first time BBC News published a news
story for every constituency that
declared election results overnight all
written by a computer a Russian police
raid on engine X's Moscow office last
Thursday has raised concerns among users
of the pop
web and proxy server software Linux has
destroyed every competing OS in the
supercomputer market taking a 100% share
of the top 500 and remember when the
owner of crypto currency exchange
quadriga CX passed away taking hundreds
of millions in customer crypto to the
grave with him
well now investors are beginning to
wonder if he actually died or if he just
took the money and ran
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show this is the
category 5 dot TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
Linux bias
Furguson filling in this week for sasha
Rickman some quick honorable mentions
well HP is fighting a very real
environmental problem by building their
laptops out of ocean bound plastics in
September HP introduced their elite
dragonfly notebook the world's lightest
compact business convertible and get
this the world's first notebook made
with ocean bound plastic HP II also
announced its commitment to include
ocean bound plastic materials in all of
its new HP elite and pro desktop and
notebook computers launching in 2020
this move reflects HP's commitment to
addressing the growing challenge of
ocean plastics to date HP has sourced
more than 1 million pounds of ocean
bound plastics that's the equivalent of
more than 35 million plastic bottles
they've been using it in their ink
cartridges HP Elite Display e27 3d
monitors and now the HP elite dragonfly
a new high-end Linux laptop has launched
that is more powerful than a MacBook Pro
and it could even be more powerful than
system76 s or X Pro it's called the
Kubuntu focus and is a joint effort
between the Kubuntu Council tuxedo
computers and mind share management the
target audience for the Kubuntu focus is
users who find the MacBook Pro too
limiting and power and compatibility
with Linux but looking at the specs it
looks like a dreamy system for Linux
power users gamers content creators and
developers as well this isn't a laptop
designed for from the ground up however
the Kubuntu focus takes roughly the same
approach as system76 does by taking a
stock cleveo unit and adapting it for
Linux this one is specifically tuned for
battery life and an optimal Nvidia KDE
experience out of the box now quick
specs look like this a core i7 9750 h
4.5 gigahertz
turbo processor keep in mind this is a
lot
top gtx 2060 GPU with six gigabits of
on-board gigabytes of on-board ram 32
gigabytes of system ram one terabyte
nvme storage and a 16-point one 1080p
full HD IPS display with a matte finish
all this will come in for less than the
price of a macbook pro with the
estimated sale price at about 2400
dollars now let's get into the top
stories that were following this week in
what the BBC says is their biggest test
of machine-generated journalism so far
BBC news published a news story for
every constituency that declared
election results overnight all written
by a computer each of nearly 700
articles most in English but 40 of them
in Welsh was checked by a human editor
before publication now the head of the
project said that the tech was designed
to enhance the service provided not to
replace human reporters Robert McKenzie
editor of BBC News labs says this is
about doing journalism that we cannot do
with human beings at the moment using
machine assistance they were able to
generate a story for every single
constituency that declared during last
week's general election now which they
say would not have been even possible
with human reporters several news
organizations are testing automated
journalism as a way of covering
data-driven stories more efficiently the
technology can quickly produce stories
focused on numbers such as say football
football scores company financial
reports and general election results
obviously now mr. McKenzie said that the
articles reflected BBC style because the
choice of phrases could in fact be
programmed in advance by BBC writers he
said quote as a journalist you try to
think of every conceivable permutation
of a story in advance
then you write a template now the
machine selects particular phrases or
particular words in response to precise
pieces of data so you can write
everything if you want to in house style
he says he goes on to clarify this
clearly only works on stories that are
grounded in data it is not a technology
that allows you to do any kind of
analysis how interesting is that
so it makes sense I love that things can
be aggregated and then put into language
that we can understand and read and and
it's been happening for years but now
it's actually happening in in news
source as well and it's not really I
mean you could say that hey this is a is
some people may have a an issue with
automation AI writing the news but this
is data this is like stuff that in the
middle of the night crypto currency
numbers are changing and so report could
be generated in something other than
just a list of numbers no it can be put
into language that we can understand and
appreciate and and read at our
convenience so I think it can be a
really good thing and I do appreciate
that the BBC is saying that this is
something that is meant to augment their
current reporting so it's not something
that's going to put people out of work
no it's something that's going to give
them additional content that they don't
have to actually sit down and write they
can just proofread it and make sure it's
good and then push the a okay go what do
you think let us know your comments
below
a Russian police raid on engine X's
Moscow office last Thursday has raised
concerns among users of the popular web
and proxy server software several
employees including chief developer Igor
C oz c of the
I will just say Egor and co-founder
Maksim I'm just gonna leave it at that
they were interviewed by police over a
criminal copyright infringement
complaint now get this the raid arrived
a week after Russian search engine and
Internet firm Rambler they who was the
former employer of one of those affer
mentioned they claimed full ownership of
the engine X code in addition Rambler
Internet Holdings is requesting the
equivalent of about 810 thousand US
dollars engine X a firm created in 2011
to provide support for users of the
open-source web server software of the
same name was bought by US firm f5
networks for 670 million dollars back in
march engine X was first released as far
as the software goes in 2004 around a
third of the web's servers in the world
use engine X often as a load balancer
even if Rambler can prove their case
against engine ax f5 wants to calm fears
about future support and product
development by reminding its users that
master software builds of its
open-source software are stored outside
of Russia how scary is that so if what
they're saying is true so the claim is
that this guy worked at Rambler and
while he was working there presumably on
company time was developing engine X and
so now they're saying hey that's our
software he was on company time that's a
scary thing and and what does that mean
for for the like the world of open
source because engine X is huge the like
in the top three like Apaches in there I
don't know who the number two is can't
be I is that just be wrong but we'll
just say nginx is in the top three
interesting thing about Rambler is that
it seems like they are going after a lot
of individuals and companies right now I
don't know if their legal department has
changed or if they've just said hey
let's look at ways to bring income out
of other things like they're suing
twitch right now so twitch the online
gaming community that the broadcast
video used to be justin.tv Rambler is
suing them because of users using the
twitch service to rebroadcast football
games and things like that
illegally well twitch says it's not
really our fault like we offer the
platform we have the policies in place
to say you're not allowed to do that if
someone does though it's not like we
have people policing it if we knew about
it if you had have come to us if a
Rambler had have come to us we would
have shut it down so in retro as
retroactively as this is to try to sue
us over this like they're trying to -
they're actually trying to have twitch
blocked in Russia like they're doing all
kinds of stuff in here nginx the one of
the top three web server software's in
the world and it's open source software
is under attack severely raid it and and
who knows what's gonna happen next so
we're gonna keep eyes on that and find
out over the course of the next couple
of weeks what is going to be happening
with nginx now we've got to take a
really quick break the crypto corner and
more of this week's top tech stories are
gonna be coming right up so don't go
anywhere
welcome back to the critic on this week
has been brutal market cap went down
from 200 billion to now around hundred
seventy five billion become dropped
around ten percent other coins drop
fifteen sixteen percent it's been hard
some of you will be celebrating some of
you will be sad those that are
celebrating see the opportunity to buy
more of their coins and those they're
sad of thinking of leaving this
community now what advice can I give you
here because I've been through this here
many times then my advice is very simple
is when you form your opinion just
listen to a group of people so don't
listen to one single person listen to a
group of people and from your opinion
that way and why because this will this
this industry is not regulated so it's
an international market and therefore
there are many experts everybody can be
an expert here and the tradition
industry like stocks for example there
are experts that only do for example
forecasting 24 hours a day seven days a
week it's a local thing it's regulated
not the crypto industry so be careful
take your decisions very carefully and
as I recommend listen to a multitude of
experts not to only one person so what
else has happened this week one thing
Mongolia they are now implementing the
possibility to purchase or to pay the
taxi fare with the stable client which
is great I mean on an international
basis it's small but it's great news for
industry then the European Central Bank
Christine Lagarde started talking in a
press conference about the future of of
cryptocurrencies within the ECB and
they're building a task force which goes
in line with what Italy is doing and
Sweden is doing and deflation is
issuing cryptic collectables so all good
news around that area something that I
found interesting is also a ripple now
has over 450 employees so it's a
substantial size I thought that was
worth mentioning and last but not least
in the case of quadriga the lawyers are
now pushing towards physical evidence
that the owner has passed away so that's
going to be interesting and this channel
we're going to continue reporting about
that what's the subject of the week
subject of the week is going to be
mining there is one website which is
called what - mine comm where you can
calculate or how much profit you're
going to make if you select one or the
other coin and you start mining that
coin I do recommend that you try to mine
something just select any coin use your
raspberry pi for this year it's a great
experience you learn a lot about how to
how this how a cryptocurrency or
blockchain technology really works and
if you selected carefully yours will
make some money don't focus on the real
big ones that you theorem or Bitcoin
because for my point of view that you
don't have any chance you don't learn a
lot take those that are really small and
that support for example Raspberry Pi or
CPU and you will learn a lot so it's
just because we're technology focused
here it's something that I do recommend
and that's for me so I wish you a great
week and I'm looking for I am looking
forward to see you soon thank you for
watching thank you Robert just a
reminder to our community that we're not
giving financial advice here we're just
sharing what's happening in the
cryptocurrency market it's clear that
Linux is ruling the world of
supercomputers as the latest from top
500 reports that Linux is now the
operating system of choice on all of the
fastest 500 supercomputers in the world
top 500 is an independent project that
was launched in 1993 to
Mark's supercomputers it publishes the
details of the top 500 fastest
supercomputers known to them twice per
year on their website you can filter the
list based on various criteria such as
country operating system vendor and so
on now 20 years back most of the
supercomputers in the world ran the
closed source UNIX operating system but
eventually Linux took the lead and
became the preferred choice
supercomputers are specific devices
built for specific purposes this
requires a custom operating system
optimized for those specific needs so
the fact that Linux is open source and
easily modified to suit the individual
supercomputer needs is likely why it's
the only choice out of the top 10
fastest supercomputers in the world USA
has five China has two while Japan
Germany and Switzerland have Switzerland
pardon me have one each no surprise I
feel like I feel like Windows used to be
on that list it totally makes sense
though that open source is like
absolutely I've never really given that
much thought but the fact that say
Windows server operating system is a
closed source OS
as is Mac OS well it makes sense that I
would as a developer as a creator of a
supercomputer I'd want something that I
can customize and of course they're
going there for the fastest they want
the best speeds and how do we get to be
the fastest custom compiled software it
has to be compiled on that architecture
on that hardware that's what's so cool
about Linux I mean that's what's so
appealing about say gen 2 or even our
clinics in the world of Linux for power
users because you can compile the entire
operating system on the specific
hardware that you're gonna be running it
on so you're gonna get the the
absolutely optimal speed out of that
system presumably because it's going to
become
piled specifically for the architecture
and hardware that you have that's cool
100% 100% yes
in late January the wife of crypto
currency exchange founder testified that
her husband inadvertently took at least
a hundred and thirty seven million
dollars of customer assets to the grave
when he died without giving anyone the
password to his encrypted laptop now
just a moment ago we heard from Robert
on the crypto corner about this and
we're just gonna go into more details
now see what's happened is is that
outraged investors want to exhume the
founders body to make sure that he's
actually dead so this is this is news
all around it's not just cryptocurrency
news this is like this is a whole shift
in a whole new way that I never it never
even crossed my mind that this could be
a scam and now it's like could it be a
scam just to kind of remind us what
happened so back in February 2019 the
wife of Jerry cotton the founder of
quadriga
CX crypto currency exchange submitted an
affidavit stating that he died suddenly
while vacationing in India at the age of
just thirty the cause complications of
Crohn's disease a bowel condition that
is in fact rarely fatal at the time
quadriga CX lost control of at least a
hundred and thirty seven million dollars
in its customer assets because it was
stored on a laptop that according to the
widows affidavit only cotton knew the
password to his widow
Jennifer Robertson said that the laptop
stored his cold wallet now that's a
digital wallet that's not connected to
the Internet and it contained the
digital currency belonging to customers
of the exchange
according to Robertson after attempts to
guess his password she went on to hire
experts to attempt to decrypt the laptop
but they too failed one expert even
profiled cotton in an attempt to hack
the computer but that attempt also came
up with nothing on Tuesday
the New York Times reported that the
amount of the exchange clients were
unable the amount that they were unable
to access is now in fact calculated to
be 250 million dollars meanwhile law
enforcement officials in both Canada
where quadriga CX is located and in the
United States are investigating
potential wrongdoing and investors are
clamoring for proof that cotton is
actually dead lawyers representing
exchange clients on Friday asked
Canadian law enforcement officials to
exhume his body and conduct an autopsy
to confirm both its identity and the
cause of death according to a report
from an auditing firm hired by the
Supreme Court of Nova Scotia
quadriga CX has transferred quote
significant volumes of cryptocurrency
unquote into personal accounts held by
cotton on other exchanges that sounds
kind of damning the report also
documented that the transfer it
documented the transfer of substantial
funds to cotton personally that had no
clear business justification an autopsy
is unlikely to lead to the recovery of
the missing cryptocurrency but it would
go a long way to confirming or debunking
the claims that cotton died at the time
and in the manner disclosed to quadriga
CX customers as I said like I can't even
fathom that this could be fraudulent and
I don't want to believe that I want I
mean just like I'm sure the the courts
want to know that yes this was in fact
what happened I want to believe that it
was an honest story but I think what it
what it raises is that cryptocurrency
has that has opened this whole new
method of somebody taking the money and
running
and even if that's not the case here
with cord Rika CX it certainly is an
eye-opener to think that hey this could
in fact happen Holly we've got to get a
hold of this folks because this could
make a heck of a great hacker movie I
gotta say hmm
hey big thanks this week - Roy W Nash
Johnny a soul boo and our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thank you for watching the
category-five dot TV newsroom and don't
forget to Like and subscribe for all
your tech news with a slight Linux bias
and if you appreciate what we do become
a patron at patreon.com slash newsroom
from the category-five dot TV newsroom
and filling in for sasha Rickman this
week I'm Robbie Ferguson and that's all
the time that I have with you this week
but it has been fantastic being here and
we are actually on a little bit of a
vacation if you will of course christmas
is coming and so is new year and both of
those fall on wednesdays so our next
live broadcast will be January 8th so if
you watch us live each and every week
hey just keep in mind we won't be here
for two weeks and that's in lieu of the
holidays and we appreciate all of you
for being here thank you so much for
giving us an opportunity to have a
little bit of time off and spend some
time with our family we will be in the
studio off and on and checking in with
patrons so if you are a patron make sure
you watch our patreon profile
patreon.com slash category-five if
you're not yet a patron please consider
that it's a great way to support
category-five technology TV and
everything that we do it is again
patreon.com slash category-five and by
doing that you will be able to
participate in anything that happens
over the holidays as we will be posting
vlogs and behind the scenes videos as we
do some things around here in
preparation for what we believe is going
to be a very powerful year for
category-five technology TV our very
first show January 8th is going to be
huge you don't want to miss it
and a lot of preparations is going into
it so that's why we that's part of why
we do need some time away from the
weekly broadcast as well so that we can
really hone in on the quality of that
program so I can't wait to see you
January 8th hey merry Christmas to all
of you and a Happy New Year all the best
for 2020 and to good health and we
appreciate you being a part of our
community thank you everybody
and on behalf of everybody who's
involved with category-five TV I know it
was a bit of a surprise that it was
going to be just me flying solo this
week just due to weather here in Barrie
Ontario but on behalf of our staff here
at category-five TV just want to thank
you for being a part of the show in 2019
it's been a great year and we are so
excited about all that's to come thanks
everybody take care all the best
you
