covering the week stop text alerts like
Linux bias Facebook's
takeover of jiffy a search engine for
funny reaction images is being
investigated by the UK's competition
Authority jiffy's vast library of
looping short video animations is hugely
popular in facebook's apps but it also
provides animations to competitors like
tic toc snapchat snapchat snapchat and
Twitter now the UK competition and
Markets Authority CMA is investigating
whether the purchase is a problem it has
sent an enforcement order to Facebook
effectively putting a hold on any
merging of the companies until its
investigation is over announcing the
acquisition in May this year Facebook
said that half of jiffy's traffic comes
from Facebook apps including whatsapp
and Instagram but it also said that the
deal worth a reported four hundred
million dollars would not affect deals
in place with other partners the CMA
however said it was investigating
whether or not the acquisition may be
expected to result in a substantial
lessening of competition but the
enforcement means Facebook has to keep
the jiffy company staff and Technology
separate from Facebook itself unless it
gets advanced written permission from
the CMA it is not the first time
concerns have been raised about the
Facebook Jaffe deal with questions
raised over the level of access Facebook
would have to its competitors data
through the service the CMA is inviting
comments until July 3rd with no date set
for its decision
