well the coffee break everybody I have
my coffee around here somewhere I'm at
Studio E and it's a mad dash to get
everything ready for Wednesday's show so
I am here I have to step off camera
because I haven't got everything working
yet so I'm not able to see anyone and I
can't I can't do half of the things that
I'm trying to do so but I'm here and I'm
wireless so I can hear you and you
should be able to hear me as well so yes
Oh perfect
oh do you want to see here I'll show you
guys I won't show you one of the ones
that are on on set but since you
mentioned the lighting let me just jump
over here so we've got three rooms at
Studio E and so these things are in the
producer studio that's man your cat is
[Laughter]
so these are the these are the new light
panels here this is what they look like
they're so much more streamlined I don't
know if you guys remember the big soft
boxes that we used to use they were
massive and take up a lot of space a lot
of weight so these these can hang just
from the from the ceiling tile that up
these hangs from the ceiling tile and is
the intensity adjustable there you go
yes it is awesome the intensity and the
frequency so you can adjust like either
white or yellow light okay so that's
what I'm using right now that's what's
around me right now so we have six of
those I've got two on right now so so
how's everybody doing
I know I can't be on camera as I'm kind
of doing this but hopefully very very
soon
I actually have to prepare because I
have this so much for coffee break a
Robbie it's supposed to be my break come
on now I have I have to be ready for an
interview at 1:30
so setting up and getting everything
ready but I should take a break right
I've earned that much you are well I'm
the interviewer yes we're good morning
Robin hi bp9 okay I've got should I do
you guys want me to stick with your
names as they show on the screen so I've
got B Marshall on the top left
I've got Lance man 63 on the top right I
got Sol do in the middle eating a
sandwich
I got Peter I got BP 9 and at the bottom
we got gwg without video but he's there
as well Robbie you can call me anything
you want just don't call me like for
dinner
all right I still don't know what that
means but you can call me that too I
will take a break I've earned a break I
think yes that's fair to say right
tonight he called the cat I didn't call
her she she just decided she wanted to
take up the whole face on the camera
what can I tell you cuz she says you're
not paying attention to me so well now
it's time he did yeah my cats do that -
Rochelle oh yeah I was only one tÃªte
here she's a one cat she's a one cat
house she does not want she does not
want any other cat now I don't know
isn't no I I took her to the vet once I
had to sedate her to get it to the vet
and she she's decided something scrapper
attention but we had to sedate her to
get her in or I had to sedate her to get
her in the box took her to the vet and
vet tech strolled by visiting all the
other pets that were in there that will
wind up in the waiting room and the
first time ever I heard I heard my cat
hiss never heard his
for but she is that the at the met cat
so I was I was very surprised he was not
a happy camper so I know that there's no
way I'm gonna bring another cat into the
house so she's definitely a a one cat
house for sure
so we got Robbie in stereo over here
yeah I figured I want to be able to see
who I'm talking to you because I have no
I've got no ability to see anything yet
so so I'm sitting in here one second
Peter this very makeshift what I've got
set up at the moment but I'm trying to
get you guys up on the TV here just as
kind of a temporary solution but I can't
get the feed coming out from the from
the producers room so working on that
yeah so I have to have that ready for
the interview at 1:30 and be able to
record everything which is a challenge
I'm sorry Peter I am I'm like so much in
work mode I should just relax but I
can't oh goodness I hate that you guys
can hear me well right so that's coming
up the microphone that's good yeah well
you can chill out for about 20 minutes
Robbie thanks man
that's all you give me okay Bob does
design decay when she went to bed she
had to be sedated loudly when she
recorded really cool to me because she
she weld her foot on the chrome grill
broker a claw and she waiting for both
of us we don't do that in eventful day
and easel and and and baseball of the
dog body in him he dove Nene I think you
don't like people did you don't like
that I don't think this would be this
would be a really hard time to have to
take your pet to the vet I'm glad that
our dog is healthy and we're not having
to deal with that that'd be tough
oh just before I did before the
inequality without three days of all day
before the quality of what you broken
now and she was older mine
poor thing
so Robbie just shown a quick demo of
what the what the fun time watch face
would look like nice this is running on
my Linux box and I'm forcing updates at
the minute I am time on this particular
version of the app this was this app is
built with the generated source code
that the first step produced in order to
in order to figure out where all the end
points would be for all of the hands and
you can see the our hand moves
incrementally as well as the as the time
progresses as the as the as the minute
time ticks around yeah I don't update it
more often than that but yeah this this
part is done the first part was figuring
out where all the XY points were and
generating the source code and then I
built this to prove that I could
actually use that source code to
generate the clockface now I'm looking
at a project called pine cake I think
it's called which is a which is a yum an
open-source app and if you just run
pancake the way it is it will just it
will draw each of the second each of the
watch face hands individually as
graphical items you know as as pngs
i I'm pretty sure I remember telling you
initially that I wasn't interested in
doing that that I wanted to um that I
wanted to do this in a victim mode
because I felt like it would be more
efficient
and so that's what I'm pursuing my plan
is to take that pine pine cake
application just take pieces out of it
and incrementally build it one piece at
a time so it's looks good I've got like
a wouldn't let sit no I'm good all I've
got to do now is figure out how to build
it and run up on the whatsit
they've done taping my my wife reachable
job or a new watch
probably old in the Ottoman state in
watch this one's got Adamic o'clock
radio links to a radio station in in
over the England we'd read which leads
to it big who annoyed and he's I'm not
under thousand years equity by good yet
and loves all about food together Virgil
love the nothing but I remember right
and doubly Northumbria from where we get
when you take you live GG broke a lot
when she she dropped a tiny wing crunch
so a cheap one oh well well cheapest one
for that 40 greater I would do it for
war anyway but he's gonna do digital
clock lenita hour radio clock on each
other so she doesn't know she's got that
yet
give public I need a few guys I hope Shh
so the prime time does not have any kind
of radio receiver so it turns usually
can't utilize that atomic clock that
you're talking about but what a pedo
right well again it would need some sort
of a network connection to do that
probably via bluetooth or so right yeah
yeah there are there are implementations
out there that will allow
synchronization via bluetooth and I'll
probably I definitely will I think
implement that but until then what I
plan to do sheets that the since that
the clock device the real-time clock
can keep track of time once it's
initialized my plan is to build at a
minimum a clock face or a clock that
will start off at the time that it was
that the program was compiled that will
that only needs to be set once and then
I'm gonna add another screen that allows
you probably true a long press or
something that allows you to adjust the
time once it's adjusted then it should
keep ticking away even even if the
screen goes off or anything like that it
should keep working until the battery
goes flat and until the thing dies right
yeah you fail too if you fail to charge
it up then it will it will have to be
reset at that point right now ultimately
though it will take a Bluetooth you will
make a Bluetooth connection called G ATT
or something and it will talk to a
Android phone or hopefully the plain
plain phone the Linux phone and get the
current time through the Bluetooth
connection and do that whenever it needs
to whenever it needs to do that so sorry
please go ahead they need a website that
you do technical clubs are you do
they'll be your basic yeah don't I go
but I got many wasn't mingling today
ain't get him but they got the done
there I think it awkwardly I've used a
New Year's in one sec don't go ping it
all depends on actually being able to
make a network request to some server
somewhere and it depends on that service
being there if you're in a situation
where you've got the point time or even
an Android and and an Android phone or a
or the pine phone but no network
connection well the phone can at least
provide the time and that's how a lot of
folks have done it they've just done it
over what makes sense yeah
that's interested I've never thought to
have an atomic clock built into your
watch but I haven't all our colony no no
not in the top ein time but the one
Peter is bought that's not real -
neither the singer yeah okay I just
graduated from the ticket alert and
about it which can permit on the clock
the government of America of Japan and
Europe they go you know we're gonna
battery together work yeah that's great
to see stuff
yes and I grabbed them well I um I don't
it'll be yeah yeah you doing well please
round about everything
yeah my lady to a little bit when I
usually there yet cause I would've been
a chip in so I click okay but one thing
you could do wonder if you could read
active the internet you've got an
internet thing to wear
if no wendi-go immediately do outside
the blocker time with the atomic clock
you've got yourself when you go early
like you'd have to live it how often you
do that Peter because some running that
radios going to set a lot of power from
there from the battery
and you don't want to be continuously
updating the time from the battery it's
got a perfectly capable timer you know a
thing the ticks and watch and you would
think you did a real time you know the
thing would come with a real-time clock
but yeah have a real talk
think and inviting you know included in
it I don't know why but you would think
that would be the way to go with it but
know this thing has it just has a timer
a thing that that continually ticks and
once you said it once you set up with
the correct time of day it will just
keep track of the time after that and it
will just keep going I like your idea
bp9 to be a
to adjust the time yeah after its
synched because I have actually have an
atomic an atomic clock whatever it has
that feature that gets that radio signal
that Peters telling us about and it is
always off by a few minutes and I don't
know how that's even possible but you
can't adjust it because it's dead set by
the atomic clock so for some reason
there's something in there that's caused
it to be off by three minutes and you
can't change it you can't adjust it yes
the reason the reason for the adjustment
is because initially I'm not going to
have any kind of network connectivity at
all not even bluetooth so if I either or
you could do you could set your time
dolly
yeah now it's gonna be manually adjust
it and I'm gonna my plan is with the
round clock face that I showed you my
plan is with the two bottom left and
bottom right spaces there I'm going to
turn those into buttons and to allow you
to cycle through the other the various
other functions of the watch my plan is
the top left button is always back so
you know there's four corners right that
I'm gonna have available and I'm going
to make every one of them buttons and
the idea is that help whatever whatever
you get to if you push that top
left-hand button no matter what it will
take you back either one level or back
to the clock face so can you get to a
known you get to a known place every
single time and I kind of like that idea
either using a long press on the clock
face will send it into the settings into
the adjust time dialog and then my plan
is it will just show our minute second
with up and down arrows on each one and
you just click click click click click
click click click click whatever one you
want this is great you're doing all the
work for us
we can just we can just order our pine
time and make it go very first thing I
want to do is I want to order all the
functions that the existing at the close
source and claims that it can
yeah and it possible even test to see
how they compare against the smartband
and see what the readings are get on the
smartband versus the readings on the
poem and see if they're even in the
ballpark right and if I can do that
I know it's possible even if I don't
know how to do it yet but I know it's
possible so ultimately my plan is to
just cycle through using those left
right buttons to cycle through each of
the functions rockface initially steps
blood pressure heart rate you know all
that fun stuff and see if I can't see if
I can't duplicate that functionality so
the difference is it's not phoning home
to China I mean anyone yeah it'll just
store it locally in memory until it gets
a chance to synchronize it to your
Android phone or your pine phone or
whatever it is you've got that yep it's
my data yeah that's great bp9 sounds
like you got it all planned out so it's
all your fault by the way
I stayed up till two o'clock last night
watching phantom yeah I can't stay up to
a four o'clock in the morning to watch
it you know a play originally they
broadcast it as if it was live so the
first viewers got to see it along at the
same time with everyone so the chatroom
is going crazy fifteen thousand people
in the chat but it was hilarious because
so many people were complaining about
social distancing they're like how yeah
you you can't do this as this is not
safe for the actors when was the 25th
anniversary remember that's when it was
done anyways I mean it's a full audience
you'd think they would include in that
this was a recording but no but so well
done so well oh I agree I agree I didn't
want to stop but I knew I had to if
there was any
ability that I was gonna make the coffee
break today same here so boo the
freedombox trying to configure his free
throw box
he's on the inside which network and the
land so you have to copy good good yeah
I can hear them and you're outside even
though it's really cold
[Music]
there's about an hour's drive from not
here rain and cold rain and cold in
Ontario it is warming up here it's yeah
we're getting into spring now so it is
starting to warm up
United States well so yeah it's slowly
but surely warming up it's right that
there's no nice living as it's just a
little bit on day long of my neighbor
it's close to the forest so the Sun
doesn't take yeah no rain here but it's
54 in cloudy pretty soon we're going to
be complaining about the heat boys I'm
always surprised at how warm it gets up
north like every now and again I'll go
to Oshkosh for the for the big air shows
that they have over there which may not
again may not happen this year depending
on the situation but every time I've
gone up there it's been very nice I can
understand why have you heard the term I
don't know probably you haven't Robbie
but anyone in the states has probably
heard the term snowbirds Lou a.m. the
folks who are of retirement age who
travel south for the winter and then
back north again for the summer
so yeah hear hear that that term means
people who have a cottage in Florida or
something like that
exactly yep precisely
yeah now which way did you go
Robbie you promised she would be yeah
she is going to be here this afternoon
not not actually here but not for the
coffee break today she'll be on the air
on Wednesday so we recorded all that
this afternoon well Tillery Mesa yes
please
sure well no thank you vp9 where are you
sir I mean the central time zone in the
United States the wet central central
time zone of central time zone August
okay yeah I thought you were in
Australia no no no move to move to the
States
more than 20 years ago back now round
seven something like that yeah
so again watch there's someone special
since you moved well yeah there was but
there isn't now yeah that's okay that's
how it works and I decided to stay here
I think in people's computers work the
same here as they do in Australia that
looks like there's a huge demand for
COBOL and mainframe skills right now I
would ask Bill about that though because
you don't want to plug your 110 volt
computer into a 240 outlet it was
switching it just what it just worked
yes I talked to the technician before I
did it and I said what do you think is
it possible and he said well it would be
better to go from 220 to 110 they're
gonna sue me to go from 1 to 20 because
you know some of them literally have a
switch on the back of the gossip line
that you haven't make sure you said well
this didn't have it but the
documentation says it's a switching
power supply so ok let's see what
happened twice the risk could happen
right I've actually had people at
Walmart asked me if our computers will
do 220 or 240 and I've looked at the box
and it says that it can handle 240
yeah yeah a lot of the computers I think
this is same here in camera and he said
he fixed it break and it's pretty
consistent with most laptop bricks I
think every single one of them can
switch between 110 and 240 volts without
any problem at all we don't have to do
anything yeah just plug it automatically
that's great for traveling from 110 down
to 15 or 19 that's got to go somewhere
else applause getting hot we'll pick
that up tomorrow I'll be back again for
another coffee break tomorrow at noon
it'll be a lot more laid-back for me
because I won't have such a heavy
schedule but it's been nice seeing you
guys have a great afternoon
