welcome to the show everybody this week
we are going to be learning how to turn
our computer's webcam into a
accessibility device to allow us to
control our mouse with our face
so if you have a webcam a linux computer
and a face you'd be good to go stick
around our live recordings are trusted
only to solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 dot TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV slash IA ib
welcome to the show everybody that makes
me think about all of the platforms the
category 5 is on I was just looking at
our subscribe page the other day ok and
realize like we have not only do we have
our assess feeds but we're on things
like stitcher and iTunes and obviously
YouTube and all of these platforms that
we don't always mention but it's like do
a search and you may be surprised to
find us on Spotify or various platforms
so I'm gonna work on that because there
are some that that we need to add there
but all right if we are missing from
your favorite podcast aggregator we are
on podcast addict as well and they've
got a great support yeah I like podcast
at me too me too
so you know if we're not on your
platform let us know and and we'll reach
out to them and make sure that the
category 5 TV and its buncha shows ends
up their endpoint security podcast
launched a new episode just over this
last couple of weeks and that's doing
really well starting to gain some
momentum with that show which is really
exciting because it's teaching business
people and IT people
the fundamentals about cyber security
and and protecting our businesses
protecting our people within the
business and and customer data right
kinds of things so caramel I've had some
fantastic guests on that show and I'd
encourage you to check that out as well
and that's all available through our
website it's up how's everybody doing
great yes yes good how you I'm done good
good and you I'm doing okay okay we'll
talk about that in just a few minutes
time as the pain shoots up my spine oh
yeah I'll tell you all about it but
Before we jump into it don't forget to
subscribe to us on YouTube and when you
do that make sure you click that bell as
well that's gonna give you that
notification which I noticed when we
went live tonight I looked at my phone
and it actually said not only did it say
category five TV is live but it gave me
a button that would allow me to
automatically start watching oh no it's
just like that so I don't know if that's
new or you know usually I'm live so I
don't pull my phone out and look when I
when I flip the switch but that's a cool
feature you realize that you're not
watching on your phone that's like hey
yes exactly so by hitting that Bell it
is going to alert you not only when
we're live but also when we release
pre-recorded videos and facts like that
do keep in mind we have two main YouTube
channels now we've got several because
we have various shows but category-five
technology TV has category five
technology TV obviously yes but that's
like the one-hour one and a half hour
show so for those who don't want to sit
through the entire length of the show
you can go to linux tech show calm that
will take you to our kind of daughter
channel which is all the edited down
clips it's like 10 minutes long so yeah
some are like three minutes and some are
18 but it's never gonna be like a full
length show it's just the the main
feature so when I edit those out and put
those up on Linux tech show comm so do
keep that in mind if you want to receive
the live notification that happens on
category-five technology TV versus linux
texture
calm which is just the edited down clips
that you're gonna see after the fact so
if you're not getting your notification
even though you're subscribed maybe
that's why alright ready to get into it
yes I have been in an unbelievable
amount of pain over the past 40 well 13
days and Counting 1313 my last about
pain last week note - yeah last week I
kind of mentioned I don't know if it was
during the show or just behind the
scenes I think it was behind the scenes
maybe yeah
just mentioned I don't listen behind the
scenes but but the past week has been
excruciating so I suffer from ulnar
nerve entrapment which has flared up and
those who are aware of what that means
I've got a nerve and so do you that goes
down your arm and if you go the the
repetitive stress injury causes it to
swell and when that happens the pain is
unbelievable so I'm actually wearing a
brace today and I may not be able to use
my right arm quite as much as I normally
would and and I might flinch a little
bit as I do use my right arm but that's
what I've been going through for the
past 13 days mm-hmm and it's there it
comes and goes but it comes in waves and
it's been really really bad you do such
a good job of not being in pain visually
your thank you show I realize that
you're so close to me that you probably
see the little bit of a yeah I've got
like a little bit of a like a like nerve
pains are like flinches and and spasms
and my back has been spasming my my
right pack has been like pulling a Terry
Crews but unintentionally no control
over that just but that's what I've been
going through and and those of us who
work in an office environment where
you're sitting at a desk all the time
now I'm not saying it's okay for me to
work as hard as I have in the past few
weeks that caused this injury that I'm
learning to say I have to learn to say
no yes we kind of have to learn to say
no when when we've got those kinds of
deadlines that are or at least say you
know maybe next week I was facing a
really strong deadline that I promised
the customer and I really wanted to
achieve that but
other things happened a server went down
on Monday that I had to deal with and
other things took place throughout the
course of the week and so I was behind
schedule and I had to catch up over the
course of two weeks I put in 80 hours on
this one project plus working full time
plus doing everything else that I think
that's a lot so it was really tough and
I didn't realize that I was hurting
myself and I did so so if you're that
person who's sitting at your desk and
thinking no I can I can just get through
the pain for just a you might have to
feel that pain for the next few weeks so
so please be careful but my whole reason
for explaining this to you is okay for
one thing yeah Robbie's human too and so
we we all go through the same kind of
things that you go through in your
office environment and with with life in
general but but I had to figure out okay
I still have to go to work every day I
still have to sit at my desk and I still
have to program websites and do sales
and do support and everything else and
answer tickets and how can I do that
it's been tough
I'll admit the paint Voice automate some
of that stuff I'm like a headset
probably yeah yeah but you get into some
expensive stuff the pain has also caused
it to be really hard to focus and
concentrate so if I seemed to drift
during the show tonight just kind of
take over for me well yeah I'm happening
as well so you mentioned you ought to be
really happy that it's me standing on
your right side so I will not like poke
you that it's like oh just the guy is
gonna hurt Robbie yeah so so if I if I
lose my train of thought just know that
that's why that that's happening tonight
what you mentioned you mentioned that
maybe you could use a headset or maybe
you could use a device or an
accessibility device and yeah yeah
absolutely and and on category five
technology TV we have in in fact looked
at some of some said devices oh cool one
of them was a sensor that you put above
your monitor and then you wear a special
baseball cap and that baseball cap has a
sensor dot that the sensor would read
and would be able to track your movement
of your head and things like that but
they get expensive you can get like
things that you put on your head that
that have sensors that you know you can
control that way and I'm by no means in
the worst state uh you know there are
people that are well worse off than I am
and the state that I'm in right now but
through trying to figure out how can I
still continue to work I thought this
would make a really good demonstration
because of what I had to go through so
as I mentioned we've looked at some
technology in the past and the TLDR
here's what we're getting into we looked
at a program called e via cam a long
time ago
so enable via cam is what it stands for
and it's a free tool for Linux that
allows you to control your mouse cursor
using your facial movements so in
assuming that you you have the
capability of moving your head right
reasonably precisely so you know you
can't it probably won't work for
somebody who has mobility issues in
their neck those kinds of things or
certainly if you have pain in your neck
it's probably not a good idea but as a
free option for accessibility not
necessarily to replace my mouse but to
add some accessibility as an alternative
to my mouse so with the mouse still on
my desk I can forget about the mouse for
a few minutes put my arm at my side and
let it rest and control my mouse with my
face okay imagine if that was possible
but unfortunately that demonstration was
so old like we're going back many many
years here 2012 is when we did that
particular demonstration and it was
groundbreaking technology at the time
but unfortunately it I tried to install
it and it didn't work okay so shall we
get into it yeah again TLDR I got it to
work and I'm gonna show you how to do it
tonight okay
so let's let's jump right into it I'm
gonna show you what happens so first of
all the way that I normally would
install this and I'm doing this on Linux
Mint 19 is I bring up my package manager
and just do a search for a via cam and
you'll see that the package comes up
there and I can mark it for installation
and apply so this is going to download
this through the interwebs and install
it on my on my Linux Mint system so keep
in mind this is a modern Linux Mint
system not something like a boon - from
2012 so this is the 2012 software this
is the old software right now they've
kept up development but let's see what
happens so I'm gonna click it's finished
installing I'm gonna click on my my
applications menu and type in Avaya cam
and click on it and I would expect that
it would come up but it's not actually
doing anything so you know maybe it's
not loaded yet or something like that so
let's try again and click on it I mean
it looks like it installed but it's not
actually doing a darn thing right which
is not very helpful for me so one way we
can find out what's going on with a
program is to jump into our terminal and
then type in the command that you would
use to launch it which is e V ik a man
do you see what happened there it's
looking for GT k23 but it's got GT k two
symbols installed on on this version of
Linux Mint so what I actually need to do
is install the proper drivers and it can
be very very onerous it can be really
tough to figure out what do I need to
install now right so through this
process I decided hey I'll write an
installer so get it working for myself
but then release this so that you can
install this on your Linux Mint 19
system as well if this would be helpful
for you and again this is not
necessarily a replacement for your mouse
but maybe you know somebody or maybe you
sometimes need a break and you just need
to be able to put your hands down and
forget about the mouse for a little bit
and this may be the answer for you so
resuming there I'm going to jump into my
terminal
first before I do anything further I'm
gonna uninstall the version from the
repository so again back into synaptic
package manager' do a search and
unmarked it mark for complete removal
and apply that so this is just gonna rip
out all of the stuff that it had
installed before and clean things up I'm
not gonna use a flat-pack I'm not gonna
use snaps I'm gonna use good old Bosh so
we're gonna I've got get installed
you're gonna need that apt install get
but with that installed let's jump into
slash temp and get clone my repository
which is HTTP colon slash slash
github.com slash cat v t v /e via cam
and hit enter that's gonna clone the
software that I created for you CD e bio
cam and now just simply sudo dot slash
install dot Sh
and I'm gonna let that run and explain
to you what's happening here as I kind
of speed that up for the sake of TV so
it wouldn't run this fast it takes about
15 minutes to set up so but you can kind
of get an impression as to how much junk
is actually needed in order to make this
go so you would have had to go through
this process all by your lonesome there
it is WX widgets is what we need to
replace so we're actually compiling a
new version of WX widgets after removing
the included version on mint 19 because
we need to have that GT k3 extension
included so and then we're downloading
and installing a via cam this it
compiles it like this is all a bunch of
gibberish I know right this is intense
so what the script does and if you look
at the installed SH file is it remove
some of the stuff that isn't that is
incompatible full disclosure or
disclaimer it could technically break
things it's probably not going to but
understand what's happening here we're
removing WX widgets and installing a new
version that has GT k3 and apparently
it's done so that it says the command to
run a via cam is a via cam
you like that just like that right so
let's try running the command so
remember what it's done is it's removed
a couple of things it's installed a
whole bunch of dependencies things that
are required by a Viacom in order to
operate and by WX widgets in order to be
compiled and then it's compiled a custom
version just for you just for your Linux
Mint system I'm going to jump back to my
terminal window here just bring backup
I'm just going to minimize a couple
things there and jump back on to my
laptop and if I type e via cam it says
not found user slash bin slash via cam
let's see if I can make that a little
bit I can't make that a little bigger
for you I'm gonna tell you verbally what
I'm typing so I'm gonna type which evey
acam which will show me the actual
location of a Viacom which is user local
bin a Viacom
which is apparently not in my path but
that's fine I can just I can just run
that command and if all goes well so as
soon as I hit enter we should see my web
cam now keep in mind you do require
having a webcam in order to do this but
most of us like the laptop has one
installed you may have one kicking
around and if it's reasonably good
quality it should work for you with a
Viacom running now you can see it's
actually tracking my face see that see
the box around my face and we've got
some some green dots that are happening
that are kind of tracking things there
that is cool I want to take it to the
next level and actually show you how
this works but I think before we do that
we got to take a break so right after
that right after that stick around we're
actually going to configure it with the
wizard and then we're gonna give it a
couple of tests and see like can this
really help so that I don't have to put
my hand on my mouse I think it's gonna
work because nothing ever breaks when
you do it when it's when we're on live
TV applications we're taking to answer
now
we possible yeah all right for a limited
time get your hands on limited-edition
shirts from the category 5 TV network
these high quality shirts are
manufactured by teespring a fundraising
website and your purchase will help
support the shows we produce get yours
today and send us your pictures to be
featured on the corresponding show visit
cap 5 dot TV slash shirts to support us
and get your official Network shirt
today cap five dot TV slash shirts
[Music]
welcome back to category 5 technology TV
we have been learning how to hack 2012
not quite we have time travel make it go
on 2019 this press No so we've been
talking about a Viacom yeah that was
originally a 2012 software for Linux
well it's been around for a long time
first came we to clarify we did a
demonstration of it back in fact you
remember yeah and it worked great back
then but it didn't work on a modern
Linux operating system right and so you
had to make some tweaks download a bunch
of yeah I just wrote an installer script
just wrote a script that made it go
right fair enough yeah now on the break
there was two questions that popped up
it ok shout room what one was more so of
a comment but the one question was from
uberaba says what is the application
tracking is it the face in the eyes the
nipples cuz on your screen you've got
the the red box that picks up your face
yes and there's the green dots for the
okay so let's actually get in there and
see what it's seeing do you see that so
it's figuring out what is a face so it's
putting dots around my nose it's putting
dots on my eyes do you see the green
dots yeah
yep okay so it's tracking all kinds of
stuff alright and now the other comment
was from soul boo and so he was watching
the compiling and he said the only thing
he didn't like is that it was done in
route is there another way to do it
without being in route you could modify
the install that SH file so that just
the make install process happens as
route but there are a couple of things
that have to be route obviously app
install which you can change to sudo if
you want within the script also apt
remove to get rid of WX widgets it has
to be sudo and of course make install so
both of those tools WX widgets and
Viacom are compiled which does not
require route and it's done in a temp
folder so it has it is able to access
that even as your non root user but that
final step the make install requires
being able to access system components
and of course that requires route right
ok so you can modify that I see another
issue that you know you know you do
raise is that I am accidentally running
his route I could no I'm not I'm
actually not running his route I thought
I was I don't know if you see that I'm
running as Robby I had I had run the
installer as sudo right sudo dot slash
install I didn't do a sudo su so I'm
actually running a via cam as a non root
user so to answer your question yes you
could hack that up feel free to do a PR
if you prefer it's up to you but if you
look at the script the only things that
are happening that are as root that
shouldn't necessarily be as root is
compiling the software within a slash
TMP folder so if there's no harm no foul
you can look at the source code and see
exactly what's happening there all right
let's see it ok so you want to actually
get in and see how this works ok so
keeping in mind I want to deprecate the
need for my mouse or at least supplement
the need for my mouse I'm going to click
Next and it says ok yeah it detected the
integrated camera that's the built-in
one and I also tested this with a
Microsoft life
and it worked flawlessly okay so locate
face automatically yeah of course
disable Avaya cam if no face is found I
like to turn that on so that if I walk
away from my desk it's gonna turn off
until I turn it back on again that's
kind of cool
that way if someone sits down at my desk
it doesn't start moving to their face
right okay next up perform assisted
calibration yeah let's do that
because I want it to be as accurate as
possible
move your head left and right so left
right left right left right left right
how long
right I don't know Jeff I'm just doing
what I'm told here come on okay
laughs up up and down up and down that
hurts to look down this is why you don't
want to have any neck problems yeah this
is like a 90 no okay now look look at
what's happening now Oh sweetie
okay Lincoln it says hover move your
head to see how it works which I'm doing
so if I move my head and then it
disappeared and now I've lost control
and I have to actually use my mouse
again I was enjoying that that was fun
so next Oh well enable pointer control
let's set up our access speed so this is
all being controlled with my face so if
I go to the left I'm going to zoom out a
little bit so that you can see the full
window here I'm gonna go to my right and
I'm just moving my head here I feel like
that's pretty natural like it's it's
following but I don't like that I can't
oh I can stay Oh neat I can kind of like
stand up it might be because it's
looking up at me right but that that
could be a little bit faster so I'm
going to increase that to 14 for looking
up and down yeah that feels much nicer
left and right feels pretty good that
that I don't like having to look up like
that so I can adjust that by just kind
of adjusting my axis speed now the other
thing to keep in mind is when I look at
dead center of the screen and I'm not
sure that don't worry about the little
staticky things they're at
what that is but when I look dead center
of the screen I can use the touchpad on
my laptop or your actual physical Mouse
to Center the cursor while I'm looking
dead center so now it's basically
calibrated because if my mouse is over
here and then I look at the screen and
then I go left I'm gonna have to go left
left left left left left right if I
instead look dead center of the screen
and then Center it with my mouse or with
my cursor with the touchpad then I feel
like hey this is much much more natural
good I'm gonna hover over next and I'm
not clicking anything I'm just hovering
because it waits for a moment to see if
I've welled see that well click default
gesture click is also available though
I've not figured it out and I'm getting
some anomalies on the screen I don't
I've never had that happen yet and so it
may be just the laptop and the way that
I've got that connected so just know
that that anomaly that you see that
flickering that is not something that
I've encountered yet but this is the
first time that I've plugged in the HDMI
to the laptop could it also be because
of the calibration that you're doing no
I think it's like a video driver issue
because I've got HDMI output going to
our broadcast server so now I can hover
over next and just wait and it clicked
ok so now I can go run this wizard at
startup click start a via cam at user
login click impossible to get
permissions for file no such file or
directory oh no because it doesn't have
a launcher that's fine
enable Avaya cam and startup good ok
finish again I'm controlling that 100%
exclusively with my face hands-free yeah
hands-free so my hands are up here folks
nobody is nobody's messing around this
is not a gimmick so you know folks are
aware know where your mouse is it's just
a touch pad just a touch pad on the
couch ok yeah so I'm going to with my
hands-free I'm just gonna like try a
couple of things oh I see like a window
up here that allows me to change the
click action which is kind of cool
and I'm gonna probably try that I'm
gonna go down and and click on the menu
by just hovering my face and then let's
go on to let's say the Internet Chrome
so I've kind of gotten used to now
you've lost me I wonder if I can get
over can I with my face actually get
over to the restore button and now I'm
not sure if the window I'm not sure how
to move it so what I'm going to do is
I'm just gonna touch my mouse button and
then move it at my face okay so I'm
using the hovering the dwell to click
which I don't particularly like myself
so I'm gonna hover over pause there we
go so now as I move around because what
I find happens in that instance is that
I'm clicking on stuff as I'm reading
websites because when you're when you
dwell to read something all of a sudden
you start clicking with your face right
so what I prefer now I have a trackpad
at my desk so I actually turn it
sideways and use my left hand to just
tap the mouse button so I don't have to
use the trackball or anything I just use
my face and I control it with that way
but then I click with my left hand this
is great this instant so what I'm going
to do is I'm actually going to tap the
mouse button on my laptop so again with
my left hand which is not affected by
the ulnar nerve entrapment I'm going to
just put my hand over top of that mouse
button so now I can look around and I
can move the window see what I'm doing
there with my head it's a very subtle
gesture but I can you know go like that
and let's let's actually do some stuff
can I get rid of this window here yes
I'm gonna hover my head right there and
click and that gets rid of that can I
make a request you can absolutely do a
new quest type something can you pull up
a keyboard and type something you could
if you wanted to use an on-screen
keyboard oh I don't I I I'm not at that
point like I can still use my hands okay
I just want to get away from using the
mouse right and an on-screen keyboard
could be pretty
the the scope of where you could take
this technology oh yeah you all that
stuff you if you have real issues with
like that extend beyond I can still use
my mouse it just really hurts so I try
and and you know I'm told I really need
to let this rest for three weeks so I
try to stay away from the mouse if I can
so this gives me an opportunity to only
use my left hand and then I'll type with
my left hand but sometimes I'll bring my
right hand in and I'll start typing as
well okay so no yes Jeff what if you
throw a second face on the screen
doesn't mess it up we could always try
that Jeff I mean typically you're
sitting at your desk with with yourself
right so here's me controlling yeah does
it pick you up
no no so now if I get out of this rain
org can you control it now oh yeah yep
you're not calibrated see it was off to
the right calibrated so use so because
this is your first time ever doing it
Jeff use the mouse to put it in the
center while you look into the center
all right hold on so actually well
you're moving your head at the same time
as I'm saying okay all right all right
Wow so that that switches to a different
user very easily yeah but did not get
now get out of here
get out of here all right yeah and the
calibration is pretty simple right so I
just use my touchpad so let's say okay
so I brought up Chrome let's bring up my
web site so oh I've probably already got
it here so category 5 TV remember I'm
just using my left hand my right hand is
completely free okay so I'm just
clicking oh that's the forum so do I
have home yes beautiful see how how easy
it was for me to actually point with my
head to the home button and that's not
as small like that's not a big button
all right okay so we're live on the air
let's let's actually use the search
feature so I'm going to bring up search
and I'm going to type a via cam on our
website because that's how you can find
this video once it goes live and let's
actually use that scroll bar on the
right hand side and see if I can
actually manage and I'm looking down
that is so we see this and there's that
episode
yeah that's the episode episode 259 from
September 2000 2012 so Wow okay so I'm
able to click around pretty accurately
is that Sasha's for show says
introducing Sasha yeah yeah you're for
sure remember my first well now you know
if I account so and now you have the
answer to that so I was impressed with
the touchscreen when you used your touch
to click the X because that takes some
precision the X is pretty small do you
think I can click the X and close Chrome
with my face now I'm gonna click with my
finger my left hand but can I do this
with my face so yes yes I can as I not
and the cursor goes all over the place
that's another thing to to mention I'm
gonna just show you this really really
quickly let's say I look way up because
oh there's a bird up oh right Reis
entered actually yeah now with the
calibrations a little bit off so what I
can actually do is I can look up until
it hits the edge of the screen look down
till it hits the edge of the screen look
left and look right and and it will
basically send her itself as well so now
when I look dead at the center of the
screen the mouse cursor is basically in
the center of the screen it's amazing
when I move to the left it's moving with
me and and it's actually it gives the
sense that it's following my eyes
because it's so incredibly accurate now
if you go it's free if you go closer to
your webcam would your face movements be
smaller to impact the movement like a
baby has limited neck mobility if they
were fabulous right in here yeah so what
is the mobility like here so it's much
more sensitive but I could adjust that
remember my right sensitivity settings
so I could adjust that and it is right
now I've got it set for me standing back
here right because that's how I
calibrated it okay so you did have a
webcam closer to your face you could do
with limited movement oh yeah oh
absolutely
sure yeah and it's very it's very
sensitive so I'm gonna just barely move
my head watch the mouse cursor I'm gonna
look
I'm gonna point to the number one there
that's in green are you ready okay so
watch how sensitive this is okay so I'm
just barely moving there get down to
that see that
okay so let's click the X hello easy
yeah
okay so let's bring up calc so where
would I find that office LibreOffice
calc
okay this is similar to me wanting you
to use it I keyboard you know sure
yeah but here I am controlling this and
I promise you I'm not touching the
touchpad no gimmicks no tricks
I am only controlling this with my face
but clicking the mouse button on the
laptop with my left hand so here I am in
calc so and and this is being controlled
with my face I'm just gonna calibrate by
looking left and looking right looking
up looking down and let's click on give
me a cell number that's on the screen so
like k10 I think that would be well
here's K and there's that's 9 10 no 11
there let's do one a little closer to
here so I can see the edge so B what B 5
B 5 okay there you go
so I'm doing that with my face so it's
that simple I can I can click with my
left finger and drag click around and
I'm not having any trouble getting my
you know no pun intended but my head
around this I'm not having any trouble
with the controls mm-hmm I did turn off
the dwell clicking because I find that
it's easier to just use my left hand to
click right but other than that
beautiful there you have it folks I
cannot believe that it was my first show
there you go now you know right this is
not gonna be my last show yes your last
we are now I mean obviously we're not
set up for this but it makes you wonder
could you use this for you know other
purposes like yes like I don't know like
some sort of you know simple gaming or
something like as a first practitioner
like I don't I don't know
- Christmas points and click games yes
yeah I don't see why not but
realistically this is just like controls
for your computer to help with your
day-to-day yeah ok can you click by
winking no so what you can do is a left
click is 8 tap your head to the left a
right click is a tap your head to the
right double click is a tap up/down is
some I don't know I never got that
working
personally I but I didn't I didn't need
it right is there let's let's actually
bring that up and I clicked on the run
now in my new line of work I have
encountered people with very significant
dwell mobility issues and now I'm just
gonna be talking this up all the time
you you get into the to the
documentation for that there is that
capability but I didn't I didn't like it
or it's helpful in my case because I'm
using the click button but there is the
feature to use that like quick look to
the left left click for example so there
you have it that is a via cam as running
on Linux Mint 19 in 2019 so my system if
I did an apt upgrade and apt up dist
upgrade everything's current I'm running
the current kernel and it's up to date
and we're now running a via cam on this
system using it almost all scripts
Nana's and just so I'm clear I didn't
create him via cam I didn't do anything
more than look through some of the
issues that were posted on their github
see what how other people have fixed
this and then just made it easier for
you so that if you want to use this you
don't have to do the same process and
maybe there's somebody out there who
wants to use this and is not quite as
technically savvy to follow those kinds
of things so so it really helps now
thinking about what you said about you
know this is your Linux Mint 19 yeah if
you did a because something had to
change in order to make this happen if
two weeks down the road you do an update
and an upgrade is that going to undo
that stuff no so it should all still be
in place script
moves the stuff that affects its
functionality and replaces it with a pre
compiled version right get overwritten
no no no it'd be good to go
only a final note is that it's for Linux
as you're probably aware so way to go
Linux yeah you win again that won't be a
problem for any of us or remember it's
Linux updates don't generally break
things Jeff that's true give a warning
all the links are below
yeah that's just a caveat to their
protection for myself breaks if it
breaks your system don't come running to
me yeah but it links are below
you can click click around to to find
your way to Evo camp enjoy we do have to
head over to the newsroom Sasha are you
ready for us sure a.m. here are the
stories were covering this week in the
category 5 TV newsroom the UK tax man
has fallen foul of the GDP are agreeing
to wipe 5 million voice recordings used
to make biometric IDs did your Firefox
browser break over the weekend
you're not alone in fact virtually
everyone who uses Mozilla is popular at
browser encountered this issue and we'll
tell you why
on Tuesday Google began rolling out a
new feature that allows you to configure
how long it can save data from all of
the Google services you use like maps
search and everything you do online and
researchers have taken steps towards an
iconic Star Trek medical device these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere this is the category 5 TV
newsroom covering the week stop text
Linux bias Jeff Westen Jemma you're
building a brand-new beautiful website
what are you you're a terrible actor
what the swear acting comes into play
you're supposed to act
okay are you building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website just because Jeff is confused
doesn't mean you have to be visit cap
five dot TV slash dream host to sign up
for unlimited web hosting for your
website with unlimited email accounts
MySQL databases the latest version of
PHP WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I am
Sasha Eichmann and here the top stories
were following this week the UK tax man
to make biometric IDs yes that's right
Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs aka
the tax collector has agreed to delete
five million voice recordings that it
used to create biometric IDs the voice
IDs were used to speed access to its
phone lines but were created before the
implementation of the European general
data protection regulation and violated
the tougher rules
HMRC will keep about 1.5 million voice
IDs which are in use but delete around 5
million we're explicit consent was not
received and where those people had
never used the system since creating the
ID it's actually some pretty cool tech
they had followed several banks and
other organizations in using a my voices
my password system to identify account
holders it will continue to use the
system but in line with GDP our rules
and its own published privacy policy
chief executive Sir Jonathan Thompson
said in a letter that they will continue
to use voice ID because it is quote
popular with our customers is a more
secure way of protecting customer data
and
enables us to get callers through to an
advisor faster end quote
I'm calling about my taxes so let's let
me talk to you about my taxes so what
somebody can maybe like a Trump em first
impersonator could actually get to the
bottom of their that's so much I mean
granted they're getting rid of so many
voice data files but what happens if you
sound just like somebody else sure do it
can you like is it like think nobody's
there like actually a like a subtle
difference all the time some tonation is
different I can rock some of really good
impression what if your voice changes
what if right like I was just saying to
Rob even I wake up in the morning I've
got this great deep washing my hands so
much that my fingerprint reader doesn't
work on my phone anymore so what if you
yeah I've like washed my fingerprints
too they're too weak now trained a dirty
fingerprint it's like that time in your
print but I've washed them all off I was
fixing something at the cottage and I
got crazy glue on my fingers and
couldn't unlock my phone for a week
right so okay so this can happen what if
your voice changes right laryngitis when
you're calling in yeah there's got to be
an alternate way to authenticate burn or
something right like some shouldn't
happen yeah yeah there must be an
alternate authentic that they have to
delete because they didn't get the
consent like you have to what now great
all these people have not checked in
with the service since but like what
kind of impact is that gonna have in the
future if those people do happen to call
it well they'll have to wait in line to
talk to an adviser there you go or and
enter a new voice print ID right cuz
it's been deleted which now they will
get explicit consent correct yeah right
because you know after gdpr came into
play now they know okay we we have to
and that's why they can keep the last
1.5 million yeah which is
why is it really that bad to have
somebody's voice on record I guess maybe
it is but I wouldn't like it would be of
concern if it's if it's an AI imprint of
your voice then could it not be used to
then authenticate against other AIS like
write a whole speech in sascha voice
chew on that all my arse right yeah did
your Firefox browser break over the
weekend you're not alone in fact
virtually everyone who uses Mozilla as
popular browser encountered this issue
and will tell you why
on Friday the expiration of a Mottola
certificate used to check the signatures
of add-on codes in Firefox desktop and
Android web browsers cause a nearly
universal failure of Firefox plugins and
extensions as browsers detected them as
invalid and disabled them yeah
the bug dubbed ARMA Gadahn 2.0 was
addressed by a hotfix issue over the
weekend and a new version of the browser
has been pushed out this isn't the first
time the sort of thing has happened with
Firefox the original armageddon happened
almost exactly three years ago on May
2nd 2016 when an expired certificate
caused signature verification errors for
add-ons a patch was pushed out to most
Firefox desktop users on May 5th
however the fix does not help Firefox
ESR or Android users an update for those
browsers is still in the works for some
users the patch required them to change
browser privacy and security settings
before it can kick in because Mozilla is
deploying the patch using Firefox's
studies system to rapidly deploy the
patch studies is a system used by
Firefox to deploy pre-release features
both to users before they're added to a
release update some organizations and
users may disable studies because they
introduce code that hasn't been tested
fully and might send usage data back to
Mozilla but because of the speed with
which Mozilla needed to deploy the
certificate
fix it was pushed out with studies
rather than as part of a browser update
which means users will have to at least
temporarily rent reenable studies to
regain functionality from the point of
view of enabling studies it could take
up to six hours for the patch to be
applied so six hours after enabling
study if you even catch it now and then
there's those of us like I'm pretty tech
savvy
I installed Chrome when it happened
because I just what's going on LastPass
isn't working I can't get onto any
websites yeah forget this Chrome
installed LastPass and that's all I
that's what's on my computer now you
know what do you use I have Chrome and
Firefox yeah and I happened to be on
both this weekend and had zero issue
lucky you huh you were offline I was all
I was building website all weekend I've
had certificates and expire yeah and
I've had to retroactively Lee fix that
huh but I'm generally a pretty small
player in the grand scheme of the
interwebs now Mozilla not so much a
small player right like one of the top
two browsers in the universe hmm like
aliens use this stuff so this kind of
thing shouldn't happen twice twice
happened twice it just shouldn't happen
and I think that's probably the
discussion that they're having around
the boardroom table today somebody's in
super trouble it just shouldn't happen
and it really it makes me feel less
confident in the company yeah yeah
um I also just want to say this whole
studies thing reminds me of like Windows
updates that can bring systems right I
just know if it was Windows updates it
would have bricked the system when it
updated this is an update to fix the
system right
but people have turned off this studies
thing right specifically because they
don't want Mozilla to collect their data
yes weird yeah the question is do you
want to allow us to install test patches
right no I want I want the good stuff
test the patches and then exactly on
Tuesday Google began rolling out a new
feature that allows you to configure how
long it can save data from all of the
Google services you use like maps search
and everything you do online until now
you had to manually go in and delete
this data or turn it off entirely
but delegate deleting it means Google
doesn't always have enough information
about you to make recommendations on
what it thinks you'll like or where you
might want to go now you can tell Google
to automatically delete personal
information after three months or 18
months Google's activity page says this
quote the activity you keep can improve
your experience anywhere you use your
Google accounts what you search read and
watch can work together to help you to
get things done faster discover new
content and pick up where you left off
and vote Google said during its event
Tuesday that it will expand these
controls to make them easier to find
right inside its apps but for now the
quickest and easiest way to manage your
privacy is under a data and
personalization when you log into my
account Google you'll find the new
feature under manage activity Google
said that it's also rolling out similar
controls for how it tracks your location
data some people may say oh but I don't
want Google to track me so you know why
why does it matter to me that Google
needs to be able to make recommendations
right yeah I personally and I realized
that I probably in the very strong
minority on this one I love my my search
history being remembered and my
preferences being remembered
I rate places I've been and hope that
Google will tell me places like it and I
love my location services on because
sometimes I forget what I did yesterday
and then my phone reminds me that aside
being able to look back at your history
being able to look at that's fantastic
and maybe that's something you might
want to opt out of but keeping in mind
that part
what makes Google so great it's so
powerful and dare I say so accurate is
that it is able to learn from what
you're looking for and and so we think
in terms of advertising because that's
the way the media slants it and we think
oh what I don't want targeted
advertising I don't want those things I
don't want you to know more about me to
be able to display ads well when I
search in Google it also presents
results systematically based upon what
it thinks I'm probably looking for right
right so search engine optimisation 101
says Java is the name of an island so if
I'm searching for vacation spots and I'm
looking for a vacation home or a rental
or something like that
and I go into Google and I type in Java
now if it doesn't know anything about me
it's just gonna give me a whole bunch of
pages about coffee right if it knows
that I'm looking for a vacation hot spot
it may present me with this sweet little
island right right so this information
is very very helpful when it comes to
the search engine standings and how
things are presented to me within Google
Google for me is super smart and
intuitive in that I'll search for a
recipe one day and three days later in
my newsfeed a whole bunch of different
recipes will come up I have made
delicious dinners just based on the fact
that Google is like such is kind of in
the cauliflower right now you know some
stuff yeah what's in your fridge sure
here you go here's some recipes it's
delicious holy I took cauliflower
sliced it sideways yeah I saw that
and I marinated it and brushed it with
some nice like I made my own marinade
and everything and I barbecued it mine I
also put a steak next to it my new
favorite is I think not college I taste
the florets and I like I make like a
flower water garlicky paste thing am i
right i brushed the stuff on it put it
in the oven then I bake it for about 20
minutes and then I put hot sauce on it
bake it again for another 20
it's kind of like a little Tabasco
super-good mm-hmm
Jeff wants to move on researchers have
taken steps towards an iconic Star Trek
Star Trek medical device have you been
treating yourself lately any cuts or
abrasions have you had to kiss any
skinned knees gotten a scratch from a
temperamental cat if you've had to reach
for a bandage since the year began don't
worry you're not alone in fact in 2018
the u.s. spent close to seven hundred
and seventy four million dollars on
self-sticking bandages of various kinds
and we needed them open wounds must be
covered up so they can heal properly you
don't want anything infecting the dermis
that's your skin while it grows a new
layer to replace what was lost in injury
and that takes time obviously a paper
cut heals faster than a nasty slip of
the knife well dicing veggies for dinner
and even that heals faster than a larger
wound sustained in a high-impact
accident the larger the wound the longer
it takes to heal if your skin is too
damaged to heal by itself or with the
aid of stitches doctors might try taking
a graft of healthy skin from another
part of your body to replace the injured
spot but it's a painful process leaving
you with just that much more dermis to
regrow taking healthy skin from somebody
else isn't an option either your immune
system zealous defender that it is might
mistakenly treat the new graft as
hostile and make you terribly sick as it
tries to fight off the invader of course
in Star Trek's 24th century any ships
sick bay home medicine cabinet or a
halfway-decent field medical kit
includes a trusty dermal regenerator
it's the ultimate point-and-click
solution just aim it at the wound and
turn it on and it's gentle beam of
healing light magically closes the skin
up how does it do that the name is a
dead giveaway a dermal regenerator seems
to literally regenerate your dermis by
prompt prompting new skin cells to grow
in the beams wake it's the perfect
solution while you won't find this
fourth centuries answer to the band-aid
in a drug store near you anytime soon we
can at least see it in our long-term
range sensors researchers at the Wake
Forest Institute for regenerative
medicine led by assistant professor Sean
Murphy developed something that they
call a mobile skin bio printer in June
2018 the paper was just published in
nature's journal scientific reports in
February 2019
let's say you've got a big bad scrape
that needs healing and you call the Wake
Forest team into action first they take
a small sample of healthy skin from you
and they put it into a jar where it can
grow independent of your body once lab
tacks have a nice supply of healthy
happy skin cells they mix them into a
life-sustaining hydrogel and pour it
into the bioprinter
which looks like a couple of microwaves
combined with the 3d printing arm bolted
to a rack on wheels they roll it over to
your bedside where an attached device
scans your scrape getting a lasers eye
view of all its contours and ridges the
Machine proceeds to figure out exactly
where and how to place layers of new
cells so that they'll match the
structure of the skin that was
originally there once the scanning is
done the bio printer is printing iron
gets to work putting down the cells it
was given layer by layer initial tests
were highly encouraging the bioprinter
technique closes wounds faster causes
less puckering from scanned from
scarring and generates new skin quicker
the next step for the Wake Forest team
is to start clinical trials on humans
Wow I don't want to be somebody who
needs this but I'm happy that it exists
if I become somebody who needs it sounds
like the future it does I mean we've
been printing body parts and organs for
a little bit now like you know you've
heard about you know a heart I think
but that's like that's not bio but this
is so I mean this is totally a natural
progression but what I wasn't clear to
me from this story is are we talking
about like deep gouges that they're
looking to fill in or just like oh I've
got like I would say it probably does
like
epidermis dermis right like probably not
subcutaneous like it's probably not
regenerating fats right I would think so
it's just like good right I pictured
like a car when you get a scratch and
you get the exact same color paint and
you just kind of fill in right if you
have the exact same dermis
yeah and it's a spray and they can just
kind of spray it on yeah it is your skin
so they must use some sort of weird like
stem cell situation to grow more skin
maybe what I'm wondering though is could
this take on a cosmetic approach like
I'm thinking people who have had really
bad car accidents or whatever oh why not
yeah maybe are missing part of their
face or something that's like I struggle
with this because of the way I look
could you take that and go you know what
we're gonna regrow that part of the face
that like I would think like it sounds
to me like a replacement for grafts
right so could a graft although it could
go that way
well I just I think to myself like when
I was working at a restaurant there was
a guy who was working in the kitchen and
somehow he burnt his leg like his shin
area and the skin would never close up
over it and they were even putting
layers of silver on it to try and to
foster some sort of regeneration and
healing this sounds like like the early
30s like let's just like rub some
mercury silver is a really good healing
thing but they were like layers of this
silver I'm pretty sure that is a vampire
bite right right now if that were to
happen now and you were really close to
the Wake Forest Institute a prime
candidate because it's just skin like
the skin on your shin is really thin so
you can gesture print new skin I love it
think about an abrasion yes a perfect
example of a great starting point yeah
so like ah oh yeah right
yeah like that seems like like a
practical expedients regrowth of natural
skin right and because these are your
skin cells being sprayed on and the
thing is your skin is the first defense
I get to protect
lair so the sooner you can get that
covered up the better your chances are
of not developing other complications
medically something else getting in and
causing an infection right thing else
yeah we'd go for Wake Forest industries
you grow think of this moment 10 years
from now when they absolutely
revolutionize the world of medicine it
sounds incredible let's get a real quick
look at coin gecko here's what the
critical market looked like as of 1800
hours Eastern Time on Wednesday March 8
2019 Bitcoin gained a lot so if you
invested in Bitcoin this week you're
doing well gain five hundred and seventy
six dollars and ninety eight cents us in
the past week alone almost 10% wasn't
it's up from 53:39 all the way to fifty
nine sixteen so doing quite well
litecoin is up a little bit at 74 31 a
theory I'm at 169 24 gaining about $11
Manero is at 66 dollars and 48 cents
again gaining now the little guys have
lost ever so slightly and stellite as we
used to know it has renamed itself so
they found out stellite is actually a
trademarked name so it is now called
torque and when you hear torque on the
show just remember that we are now
talking about what was formerly known as
stellite and they are sitting at one
point one eight ten thousandth of a cent
turtle coin is at one point one four
remember if you're going to trade or do
anything in the crypto market or
remember that it is always volatile and
because the crypto currency market never
closes it could change overnight it's
not like the stock market that closes
that you know 5:00 p.m. or whatever it
is it just keeps on going and things
keep on changing so do keep that in mind
random side note my name is SOG is named
torque torque yes like we're gonna say
crypto anyone if you named your dog
crypto we will send you a gift that's
right probably a sticker isn't probably
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thank
for watching the category 5 TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Jeff Weston we do have to take a really
quick break but if you have cast your
ballot for a Kingston DataTraveler 2000
you may be our next winner so don't go
anywhere whether you shop on ThinkGeek
gearbest B&amp;H Photo Video eBay or Amazon
or even if you want a free trial of
audible you'll find the best deals and
support the shows we produce by simply
visiting the shopping sites you already
frequent by using the links on our
website visit category-five TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching welcome back to category 5
technology TV we're just dealing with
the giggles lots of good stuff going on
like a commercial the commercial breaks
around here are much more fun for us
it's true
yeah it's true what you've been waiting
to find out about are you the winner of
the Kingston data traveller mm I love
these things because it's an encrypted
USB flash drive and that means that your
data is safe I do
but typically yet nice Cheers
typically with an encrypted drive you
got to install software get it all
configured and install your password and
if you don't have the software all
you've lost your data and all that no
this has got the built-in touchpad so
you just push the buttons enter your
passcode it decrypts it you plug it into
your computer and boom you've got access
to your files but as soon as you unplug
it it really disabled z-- the fact that
it's an unencrypted so it goes back into
an encrypted
so anyone else who plugs that into their
computer can't access the files great if
you are traveling with anything
confidential but it's also nice just to
know that your data is safe I've got
pictures of my kids and things like that
I've got cryptocurrency keys and they
can be safe just don't forget your
password
don't forget your password that's
important it's a backup of the backup
remember that it's just one that you can
take with you and you no longer have to
worry about about it so we have one of
those to give away let's jump right into
it folks if you cast your ballot I hope
that you win campus and Michael hey Chad
Baker
lots of names this week folks I know we
gonna get there I like the balance keep
coming
thanks for saying nice things about us
night we'll call them junior kisses Stan
it's flying by too fast on us mark I
feel like this is like I feel like this
is like an episode of Walker oh I see I
see Richard I see oh wow Bob hey anybody
else feeling motion sickness right
better right now
Ian and I saw Dennis there as well Jenna
Michael
Peters and we must be getting near the
end done buddy if you haven't seen your
name yet Scott and the winner this week
of a data traveler 2000 is David Hartley
David congratulations sir can you are
the proud owner of a Kingston
DataTraveler 2000 David all we need you
to do is just simply send an email to
contest a category 5 TV with your
shipping address so that I can send that
out to you and that's all that it takes
good if you don't I get to keep it is
that the rule
that's my rule that sounds fair enough
if we don't hear from you by the time 8
16 and social 817 p.m. then then that's
that's Jeff's no we're kidding
just mail us email us let us know where
to send it
that's all the time that we have this
week folks it's been great having you
here thank you for your well wishes this
week as well with with my injury and I'm
hoping that next week I will be good to
go but that device that setup that we
looked at tonight has really really been
helpful for me and also it helps you as
well thank you also to those who have
pitched in over the past couple of weeks
we're working toward getting that server
replaced and it is we're working our way
there and every contribution brings us a
little bit closer we've got to get a
broadcast server in place and I'm hoping
that we can do that within the next
month or so so if you'd like to
contribute you can do that through
patreon you can do that through donate
category-five TV to throw something in
the tip jar and we are also on Twitter
if you want to find us there at
category-five TV I'm personally on
twitter at robbie Ferguson and I'm happy
to follow you back we're on YouTube as I
mentioned at the top of the show
category 5 TV and Linux tech show calm
and you can catch us on roku Kodi Plex
pretty much any player
we're on Spotify on iTunes on wherever
you want to find us just do a quick
little search and you'll find us if
you're not finding us on things like
plex you can actually download the
plug-in on our github it cap 5 dot
cat5 TV on github so github.com slash
cat5 TV of course just to make it easier
for you everything comes together on our
main website a category-5 dot TV and
you'll be able to find all the links
you're looking for or at least get into
our community and ask some questions
will point you in the right to the right
place mm-hmm hope you have a wonderful
week everybody see ya bye
