welcome to category five technology TV
this week we are going to be unboxing
installing and testing a dashcam these
are great for security and if you ever
have an accident we don't want you to
but if you do you want to be able to
prove that it was the other guy's fault
but here's the thing we've got one for
you this week the cost you only thirty
dollars our live recordings are trusted
only two solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast
and nimble streamer tune in every week
on roku Kodi Plex and other HLS video
players for local show times visit
category 5 TV category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
gets here cat 5 dot TV slash DPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat five dot TV slash iai
be welcome to episode number 617 of
category five technology TV great to
have you here great to have you to here
again this week nice to see you and
we've got a great show planned Sasha you
are gonna be installing a $30.00 u.s.
dash cam in your car today we're gonna
put it to the test yeah we're gonna talk
about that but it's dirt cheap and we're
gonna find out is it really worth that's
very very small investment or should you
spend more okay we're gonna be looking
at that in just a couple of moments but
before we get into it I want to remind
you to subscribe to us on YouTube and
while you're at it click that Bell and
that's going to ensure that you get the
notifications anytime we post new videos
or even when we broadcast live it's a
great way to to follow the show another
great way to follow us is through
through the Twitter channel we're on
Twitter we're on social media we have a
Facebook page as well all the videos go
up there and we do live broadcasting
through YouTube
as well as Facebook and we're on Cody
Plex Roku pretty much any platform both
on-demand and live yes so if you've got
it and you're not sure how to get
category 5 on it just ping our chat room
and we'll we'll be able to hook you up
quick congratulations to Sol boo yeah
yeah I don't know if you folks can see
there on the screen in the discord chat
has posted a photo of the new house that
they've taken ownership it's very nice
very quaint little country home I would
like to visit is far far away but I
would like to visit in a land far far
away so Boo and his country home raising
chickens and dogs puppies puppies yes
once their dogs they are out of there
eventually they turn into dogs Sasha are
you one of those dog owners I'm waiting
for the puppy to become a dog so that
he's like curl up at your feed and he's
no longer bouncing around and jumping
all over the place and see our dog will
be 14 in September yes and she's still
about what kind of dog is she she's a
husky husky yeah like even the other day
we pulled out a laser pointer she loved
that's cool yep so she still has puppy
mentality even though would you runs you
can hear the energy
yes okay well we're gonna get right into
it folks I mentioned at the top of the
show we have a $30 us - camp mm-hmm I
want to take a look at this now Jeff you
have a dash cam Sasha presently does not
right tell us a little bit about what
made you get a dash cam so I mean I
commute all the time for work
yeah and in some some days I could be
going 700 kilometers in a day like he
was gonna say 700 kilometers an hour
no I wouldn't put it past that my car
went that fast I've considered yeah
nobody so in my time driving back and
forth to the big city I have been in
four car accidents oh yeah and
thankfully three were not my fault
one was weather-related and just I
continued to slide night in a guy in a
car
yeah and thankfully was one of those
like good clarification you're like I
don't see any damages like I don't see
any damage and we're good to go
he's good I've had to write offs and in
both cases I'm like I wish I had a dash
cam because right I can show that I I
was sitting at the light not moving the
radio is not on I'm not on my phone like
if you have a dash cam you are basically
a super spy just come on automatically
yes you don't have to think soon as I
turn my car up it's on it's going and so
in the one accident that I did have
where I had the dash cam yeah it
happened to be that every ten minutes it
because it records to an SD card yes it
will stop and then start a new recording
and is there a three-second gap took
place in the middle of that gap
no that's like driving and then the
video comes on and I've been hit goes
like you gotta be kidding me so oh that
seems suspicious when you showed that
video table I was the one oh that Park
just disappeared camera that's 200 bucks
I would have thought I would do a little
bit better okay 200 bucks and that was
about the cheapest we could find and
that's on sale as a Christmas special
all right well pathing I'm gonna try to
get the name right pathing lek has
brought at a 1080p dash cam that is
available for only $30 us about well $45
here in Canada our our currency yep and
you can get one at camp five dot TV / -
cam or at least check it out and even
compare to Jeff's and I have compared
because you actually talked about it
previously on the show yeah on the
Cooper that you got and so I kind of
compared feature to feature
and some of the things that I love about
your dashcam are in the $30.00 camp yeah
things like wide dynamic range yes so
for example it's getting a little bit
dark out it's not quite dark enough for
the infrared to come on because it has
infrared as well yeah it's not quite
dark enough but the wide dynamic range
brings up the levels and the the color
saturation so that you have clearer
video at dusk and Rand on right so so it
does all that now they also I have a bit
of a discrepancy because on their Amazon
profile it says that they have a three
year warranty and then below it says
there's a one-year warranty and
sometimes you see this when information
has been copied and pasted right by
whoever's creating the profile and
unfortunately they missed that I'm not
too sure whether it's a three year or a
one-year warranty but let's consider the
price at $30 u.s. even if it's only a
one-year warranty that's pretty good
why wasn't one year and what they what
they say right on the profile and this
is reiterated is that they have promise
of 24-hour resolution so if you Wow it's
a resolution of your problem so if you
have a problem with this webcam even
though it's so cheap as far as the price
goes - Kay
- cam pardon me thank you they will
resolve it within 24 hours presumably if
it's broken they'll send you a new one
that there's a problem they'll walk you
through how to fix it
those kinds of things so the warranty is
there as well it has a three inch IPS
display do you want me to actually like
get into the box
yeah and I'll tell you about these
things yeah okay I'm gonna jump over
here and let's actually open this thing
up all right I'm excited because if this
works I'm totally getting it for my
wife's car she just picked up her new
car today there you go
she was in an accident a couple weeks
ago oh and that would be perfect I'm Way
over here I'm gonna I'm gonna switch
cameras here so that we can see the box
and I'm gonna pop into this
so a couple of quick mentions about the
specs it does have a three inch IPS
display Jeff another thing that it has
similar to yours is a hundred and
seventy degree field of view yes that is
nice it's really wide we're gonna see
that a little later in the show here we
go so there it is folks the lens looks
honking huge it looks like they made it
look like a DSLR now that lens is
actually just the dot in the middle and
it's like a plastic housing to make it
look more substantive than it is but I
mean it does look reasonable now you see
that LED light there on the left-hand
side yeah of your screen that's for the
infrared as well it does have an
infrared sensor and it's able to pick up
night vision which obviously we're not
gonna be able to test today because it's
super bright out we've got tactile
switches buttons to be able to control
the various settings and they feel
pretty good see if I can power it on it
looks like it's well flash there for me
let's try again ericom's blue light
there we go having tech and there we are
we've got like camera inception here
okay so I mean it looks okay
it looks just fine I mean it's a
affordable little camera but let's see
what else that comes with that do you
know what the battery life is I don't
yet but Sasha's gonna let us know in a
week's time cuz she's gonna be using it
okay okay so we've got the suction mount
pretty typical suction clip that goes on
here and then secures to the windshield
it's got the switch so it actually pulls
back on the suction cup to give it a
good
seal to the window so it's not going to
fall off we've also got what looks like
a permanent mount so if you're really
happy with it or you don't want it to be
movable from one car to the other you
can actually stick it on to the that
would also let you stick it on the dash
to not the window and then we've got the
USB a-looking cable
oh and okay so not even just USB we've
also got a plug that goes into your
lighter
oh and has the USB to power it so that's
okay and it's got looks like it's got a
good long cable we've got another 3m
double-sided sticker information about
the type of glass card that you're gonna
want to use class 10 up to 32 gigabytes
and it's micro sd and then we've got an
English manual and a French manual as
well here in Canada all right there we
are
that's all there is to it let's try to
fire it up and see whether we can not
sure if it came with a charge or not
Sasha
I've got I noticed there it says
February 5th or something like that
we'll fix the date during the commercial
break before we mount it in your car or
before you do February 25th there we go
so let's jump into the menus here
navigation feels really solid it doesn't
feel janky at all oh we've got a G
sensor so that means if you get in an
accident
yeah it will actually lock the files so
automatically so it has loop looping
recording so as you approach the limit
of the capacity of your card it will
automatically re recycle the space so
it'll record over the oldest videos okay
but having that G sensor oh and I'm
gonna put in the 16 gig Kingston class
10 having that G sensor means that when
you get in a collision if you do it's
actually going to lock those files
because of the movement it's going to
detect the
and so that way it will not record over
them if it loops that's so it just gives
you that added protection so that you're
not going to lose your files yeah it
looks really really good
so I mentioned the G sensor and it does
have 24-hour loop recording and it has a
parking mode so you have to set this it
doesn't automatically set itself to
parking mode but let's say you park it
I've had this happen where I've gone
taking the kids to a birthday party and
I parked it on this I parked my vehicle
on the street and somebody backed into
my vehicle and we were in the party we
didn't know we came out and somebody had
hit and run yeah
so in parking mode what it does is it
puts the camera into like a suspend
state a sleep state right it's not using
a lot of battery power and your car's
not powering it so it has a built in
battery to keep going
and in parking mode if it senses any
motion like if it sees any any movement
it will start recording so as a car is
starting to approach you're parked car
all of a sudden your camera comes to
life and it records so then if you came
out and you say oh somebody hit my car
dashcam if it was in Park mode we'll
have hopefully captured that if it's
pointed you can adjust that like the
angle of the camera and do that
accordingly how that goes I think that
is kind of a premium feature mm-hmm for
something at this price point we do have
to take a really quick break I'm going
to set the clock on that I'm gonna plug
it into the the charger real quick and
when we come back you're gonna have the
opportunity to try that camera out stick
around
[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV now before the break we
unboxed and quickly had a look at this
$30 dash cam and this comes to us from
having let pathing lick having tuk
pathing Tek why is it is it spelt wrong
on the site I think it is but all the
thing it looks like it looked like
bother it looked like a tea didn't it
yeah yeah I think Amazon has it wrong oh
so that is why I'm stumbling on it
having tech makes a lot more sense yeah
either way 30 bucks either way if you go
to cap 5 TV / - cam all one word that's
gonna actually take you to it and you're
gonna be able to just compare that with
with the dash cams that are costing a
lot more I'm saying before the break
that it seems like some of the features
of this camera are quite premium for the
price tag yes some of our futures that
even like ever doesn't fo won't see
technology progresses prices come down
and here we are in 2019 this looks like
a pretty decent little rig yeah when you
mentioned the G sensor that right there
yeah did it for me cuz from my car the
one I have in my car it's a manual
button so if I get an accident I phone
the button no which doesn't help if I
get schmuck then I'm knocked out Oh cuz
then the loop goes it's like oh whoops
we lost the video darn so it's a manual
button for mine so I love that that is
automatic
alright it was not the parking feature
we're not gonna get into a collision
tonight so we're not gonna actually get
to experience the g-shock feature
however I am gonna switch over to a
video that we recorded just before the
show so this is Sasha just before the
show tonight and I'll let you kind of
explain what's going through your head
mounting the suction cup thingy yeah
which was super easy I had a little clip
that's that's great
then the actual the actual dashcam
itself just slides right on to that a
holder so super simple a sash I don't I
just mean like it's it's an easy install
it's not like you it's not rocket
science to do this like it's just a
simple thing but for the price I'm eager
to see how it performs okay so you're
plugging it in directly yes the USB yeah
there's like a little just because I
probably should have looked at it before
well while we're seeing this just to
clarify marsh man let us know it is
pathing lek having lek okay so there we
have it this is how it should be done
there ya go alright let's plug it I love
the head not there we go now do you
think that there's enough length there
Sasha that you could drape I know you're
just gonna drape this down to the to the
lighter socket but could you like put
this around oh okay oh no you just
started the car yeah and it just fired
up and started recording which is
awesome that light turned red okay so it
turns out automatically when it senses
power from the VA oh that was a video
album yeah cool that's pretty good okay
car looks nice and shiny Sasha well done
thanks let's let's get some dashcam
video and see how this thing performs
so just a quick little jaunt around
variant look at that
I love the the wide-angle view it's it's
clean so if you had a car coming up on
either side just consider as you look at
these roads it's not you're not gonna
have any trouble seeing a car coming
from the side no does the dashcam have a
microphone on it to record what's
happening in the car mm-hmm it does in
fact we can hear that a little bit in
the background right now I know you
don't have a headset so you can't hear
it but I can okay I did pick like the
bumpiest route you really did like let's
find the industrial zone of Bari where
there's all the potholes and railroad
tracks
but that's okay cuz I mean it even shows
you how it performs on a bumpy road
right I'm thinking that Jeff because I
did try to do some handheld shots to you
know just some b-roll for the for this
and it was very bumpy and as I'm
watching this it's really smooth
yeah like very smooth there's blown away
that's great and the colors are great
like it's a good-looking video it's so
this is out of the box settings like you
didn't have to adjust anything I mean
other than the date yeah that's all I
did was set the date and time at the
bottom left there so you can see exactly
when we actually recorded this just a
couple hours ago otherwise there's no
note settings were changed Jeff
look at that yeah well hey it looks
great folks what do you think for a
$30.00 dash cam Sasha will you report
back in a week's time and let us know
what you think of this
I certainly well this is amazing oh and
I want you to try that parking mode too
and just see how that functions this
dance around in front of the camera and
see if it starts recording all of a
sudden
that'll be my ideal like having that
parking mode for the work I do I want to
have my car you know yeah watching
what's going on when I'm not in it well
that looks great so folks this is you
know it's pretty Drive video but this
shows the quality of this now a little
bit of specifications for you it is
1080p I did mention that but so we're
looking at 1920 by 1080 resolution so
high enough that as you can see it's
crystal clear but you you could even
take stills from this and they're gonna
be pretty good pretty good quality for
sure Wow
I'm actually pretty impressed with this
Jeff your your camera is you mentioned
it was 200 bucks yeah and have you like
to have any comparison like any visual
from a video standpoint I would say
pretty similar I would actually say this
is better I think mine's a 720 okay now
there was a there was that what uh was
that part of the loop that may have been
the loop Jeff oh my goodness he might
actually disappears for the loop oh wow
oh that's awesome yeah this I had this
on yeah he saw that it was loop
recording so and we just stuck a
kingston SD card micro SD class 10 in
there and seems to work just flawlessly
like we haven't had to monkey with it or
anything yeah like it's just just works
yeah no I think that was a better video
feed than my camera Wow
so yeah I'd say $30 for the win
well done Sasha we got the thumbs up
yeah so what do y'all think cat5 dot TV
/ - cam for the $30 dash cam and I'm
working my way around yes that's insane
oh it's a really great camera for that
price yeah blowing my mind well I mean
at that price you can get one for the
front and the back yeah that's a great
on your back window so that you're
always filled that's a really great idea
we could you could put one in each of
the corners and do carpool karaoke you
know what I'm saying
Abbi do you tell your insurance company
that you have a dashcam I did and did
that impact your premium at all not at
all no I know like when we install
surveillance cameras and things our
house insurance but it yeah for my car
okay yeah that's interesting
no that's another thought yeah I know
that your car has been broken into in
the driveway so yeah having something
like that work oh my goodness yeah that
guy oh good okay so you know that's
another thought is it could be used with
the parking mode it's gonna pick up
motion now what it pick up the sound of
a smashing window it doesn't pick up
saying here's the sound but no it's
motion activated in parking mode or if
the car is running it's just it's
recording all the time and loop mode
okay so there's no there's like a
seamless recording all the time
while you're driving now if they added
that feature and saved it a firmware
update that you can update through the
Nestea where like it picks up on the
smash that would be a phenomenal future
that's like that's mind-bendingly
crazy for a cheap camera although I
think about like wise I mean I'm not
saying that we're not saying that they
are going to do that with this camera
but likewise cams are an example of like
a camera that is constantly being
upgraded and updated and becoming better
and better in they're only 30 bucks and
it's like holy cow how are they doing
this for so cheap
and but this one as it is right out of
the box I'm impressed
I was good I mean that's pretty awesome
of it check it out cap 5 DB / - cam have
you got a dash cam and if you ever had
an accident where you're not at fault
and that was helpful for you when it
came to - like talking to the police or
your insurance company anything like
that you might be able to go to the
accident reporting because you they ask
you for a description of the actual
accident you not just this is my
description yep yeah here you go
so just show them on with this also I
should mention one final thought you can
switch modes to playback and you can
actually play back the video on this the
3-inch screen right so if you had an
accident and the police were there you
could say look here you go there's what
happened this would also be good for
like incredibly picturesque roads true
right there I mean here we have
beautiful winding roads with great
scenery not not not necessarily the ones
that we went Barry yeah if you drive 20
minutes in any direction it's gorgeous
and you could I mean because it's got
the suction cup and it does have the
battery you could put it even on like
the hood of your car
for you're just full of ideas and
gimmicks Jeff don't do what he says I'd
be so afraid of it flying off and
hitting someone and hurting them Jeff
hurting them if you're going down a
country road the likelihood of it I mean
other than hitting a cow don't do it
leave it inside just for the review I
know don't do it don't do it that's what
like if you're gonna do that you need to
have yeah like we have for example if we
were shooting that type of video oh we
have something like this right okay it
has multiple suction cups and that's
going to that would work yeah that's
exactly what you need so keep that in
mind
don't listen to Jeff
[Laughter]
I used to fall my good ideas at the
beginning of the show all right well
it's time to head over to the newsroom
Sasha if you're ready we're gonna jump
over there here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom it's decided Facebook will be
fined a whopping five billion dollars
over the Cambridge analytical scandal
the fully interactive a Doctor Who VR
game the edge of time is arriving in
September an artificial intelligence
system created by researchers at the
University of California has solved the
Rubik's Cube in just over a second and
Intel has unveiled its new AI system
Hawaiki each it's a neuromorphic
computer capable of simulating eight
million neurons these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere this is the
category 5 TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech days
Linux bias I'm Sasha Rickman and here
the top stories were following this week
it's decided Facebook will be fined a
whopping five billion dollars over the
Cambridge analytic a scandal the
Consumer Protection Agency in the US the
Federal Trade Commission FTC
began investigating Facebook in March of
2018 following reports that Cambridge
analytic ah had accessed the data of
tens of millions of its users as it
turns out the if the political
consultancy firm was able to improperly
obtain the data of up to eighty seven
million Facebook users the investigation
focused on whether Facebook had violated
a 2011 agreement in which it was
required to clearly notify users and
gain express consent to share their data
in a three-to-two vote the record five
billion dollar settlement was approved
by the FTC the fine still needs to be
finalized by the Justice Department's
Civil Division and it is unclear how
long this may take if confirmed it would
be the largest fine ever levied by the
FTC on a tech company Facebook had been
expecting this it told investors back in
April that it had put aside most of the
money which means that it the firm won't
feel much added financial strain from
this penalty what we don't know yet is
what additional measures may be placed
on the company such as increased privacy
oversight or if there will be any
personal repercussions for the company's
chief executive Mark Zuckerberg the
settlement which amounts to about
one-quarter of the company's yearly
profit will reignite criticism from
those who say that the fine isn't much
more than a slap on the wrist
hmm five billion dollars is not a slap
on the wrist feels a bit a little larger
two dollars is a big fine it is yeah I
don't think I don't think that they're
going to ignore the fine right like
we're not gonna continue they've already
put most of that money away with yeah
that's not say had access to most Oh
money take that out of our surplus
right you want to make it hurt you go
beyond that quite frankly I do think it
was a slap on the wrist
and I was reading an article that there
was a jump in shares after the fine was
announced mm-hmm why I have no clue but
the jump in shares almost produced the
same amount of money that they were
fined Wow
people are in love so it's like Oh bad
publicity good on Facebook oh we just
made the money back like to me that's
stupid
from a legal standpoint like what have
they accomplished that's what you're
saying yeah they've accomplished nothing
virtually right what are they gonna do
that five billion dollars it's gonna go
under the federal coffers what I want to
know is is this gonna produce lawsuits
like is somebody gonna say I'm suing you
now Facebook you've been found to be
inviting those victims yeah I was a
victim and my life has been impacted
because now I see these advertisements
that I never wanted to see before I want
my money but I mean I could see a
class-action suit coming out of this hmm
I mean is it gonna mount too much
probably not but right i I just quite
frankly with all the money the Facebook
makes and all of the intrusive nature
that they have built their company
around I think five million or five
billion as a joke
what would you set it at I would have
put it out around fifteen I would not
fight fifteen billion dollars yeah too
much but the other thing is I think this
is a settlement I don't think it was a
straight-up fine I think they cut a
backroom deal so they knew it was coming
it's dealt one positive 1/4 of the
annual earnings if I had to spend 1/4 of
my earnings on a fine I would be eating
mr. noodles I think we're in a different
tax bracket like think about it that
fine is 1/4 of their yearly revenue
purely from selling your personal data
that's what they do
yes I am
defending Facebook remember I am not
even on Facebook anymore
that's how saddened I was by all of this
privacy breach yeah and I don't think
Zuckerberg is out the window don't know
I'm gonna touch him no I'll tell you
what like as a user as a programmer the
whole Cambridge analytical thing what
does it meant to me is strictly
frustration to the point where I've
cancelled all Facebook services within
my company right like I no longer
provide Facebook services to our
customers I had somebody even messaged
me asking me to set up an Instagram
profile and I said go elsewhere I'm not
gonna do it I'm not I'm not dealing with
that company anymore
see here's the thing that bothers me a
little bit about the story and I know we
got to move on to another you look at
when Elon Musk made his tweet about
cutting some deal overseas or something
that never came true and suddenly he had
from the trades Commission had a year of
sanctions for Twitter and he had
somebody like an ethical person follow
him and like yeah like there was a
lawyer attached to it so like there was
this big deal mm-hmm whereas Facebook
releases millions of people's personal
information and they go pay us some
money mm-hmm like where is the impact on
the company yeah I think there should be
a whole lot more that comes with it I
think the impact on the company is
companies saying I'm not dealing with
Facebook anymore
but look I'm not lying advertising space
on Facebook now I'm we have a Facebook
profile a Facebook page for category 5
TV because there are a lot of users and
so we want it to be accessible to you
but personally I don't use it and I
don't support it like that's what it
seems that blew up again this week and
all the personal data that's being taken
from that people just don't care like
the public doesn't care and I realize
it's a broad strip yeah I don't like to
generalize and I apologize for the
generalization because you may be saying
no I do care I absolutely care I've
cancelled my account or maybe I didn't
even sign up for one because I didn't
agree with their Terms of Service but
the fact remains like where we are in a
different era now than we were 10 years
ago now the types of data data thievery
that are happening in things like social
media didn't exist 10 years ago and so
the law has to catch up we know that
like there's so many different we could
talk about and P double-a we could talk
about oh yeah like all these things and
and they haven't caught up yet and maybe
it's just one step at least maybe it's
not about Facebook maybe it's not going
to dent them but maybe it's going to
protect users from the next big breeze
because the next big breach is still on
the up and up hopefully we don't really
know big picture stuff
the fully interactive Doctor Who VR game
the edge of time is arriving in
September the doctor has been hurled
through time to the end of the universe
a virus that threatens to rip apart
reality itself has been unleashed
players can pilot the TARDIS on a
journey across the Worlds both familiar
and strange to recover a series of
powerful time crystals that can repair
space-time and ultimately save the
universe itself following the recent
reveal of the animated VR experience
Doctor Who the runaway a new cinematic
feature-length Doctor Who VR video game
is coming this September
published by play stack and developed by
maze theory Doctor Who the edge of time
will transport fans into a globally
beloved world of aliens mystery and
Wonder letting them embark on a
brand-new and fully interactive
adventure inspired by the show's 55 year
history and starring the doctors current
incarnation played by Jodie Whittaker
armed with the iconic sonic screwdriver
plan players will solve mind-bending
puzzles grapple with classic monsters
and encounter new horizons in a quest to
find the doctor and defeat a powerful
force that threatens to destroy the
fabric of reality they will face the
infamous dot Daleks daily Daleks yeah
Dalek we have one here on the set an
either known faces from the doctors
universe plus some brand-new never
before seen monsters as they travel
through stunning cinematic environments
that truly bring the show to life ok so
first of all that's a dollar
yeah I am waiting no exterminate actor
okay so my kids are going to be thrilled
about this I'm thrilled about this first
of all the storyline sounds like my
day-to-day life it sounds pretty cool
yeah these days they can do so much and
the Jodie Whittaker is in fact involved
in the actual game it's gonna be a lot
of fun for Jodie Whittaker fans and at
the eleventh Doctor fans as well so this
is great yes and we've got also the
Orville interactive fan experience which
is coming to steam within the next
couple of weeks like the the coming soon
is already on Steam so do a search for
the Orville so we're looking at like
some of the great sci-fi shows right now
are gonna be playable VR games yeah
that's cool
it's very cool so looking forward to
this one - Thank You Sasha VR an
artificial intelligence system created
by researchers at the University of
California has solved the Rubik's Cube
in just over a second deep cube a as the
algorithm was called completed the 3d
logic puzzle which has been taxing
humans since it was invented in 1974
professor Pierre Baldy who authored the
report in nature machine intelligence
said quote it learnt on its own the
researchers noted that its strategy was
very different from the way humans
tackled the puzzle
professor Baldy says my best guess is
that the ai's form of reasoning is
completely different from a human's end
quote the computer algorithm is not the
first or the fastest non human to solve
the puzzle that honor goes to a system
devised at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology dubbed the min two-phase
algorithm which solved the puzzle three
times faster but that system did not use
a neural network which mimics how the
human brain works or machine learning
techniques by contrast it was programmed
specifically to solve the puzzle
creating a system that teaches itself to
complete the challenge is seen as the
first step toward creating an AI that
can move beyond games to solve
real-world problems professor of baldies
says quote the solution to the Rubik's
Cube involves symbolic mathematical and
abstract thinking so a deep learning
machine that can crack such a puzzle is
getting closer to becoming a system that
can think reason plan and make decisions
unquote this sounds awesome this is an
interesting story I I get the rationale
behind using it to learn to solve a
Rubik's Cube
but the rubik's cube has been solved
like you go online and you can it's like
do this do this and there's a sequence
you follow how I can do it yeah how many
seconds for this machine not how the
machine did it right no I get that but
it's so it's interesting way it's
interesting life finds a way it's an
interesting way of how they've used it
but at the same time I'm going pick
something that isn't is solved Rubik's
Cube missing the point
they need to prove how fast it can solve
some things by testing it against
something but also how it solves
yeah ask me an abstract question just
ask me any question just something
completely out of out there how many
particles of fuel do you get behind a
jet stream see I don't know the answer
to that I have no clue and I can answer
that gosh you could have asked me one
that I could at least answer question
but the fact here is that okay so I've
sat down with a Rubik's Cube yeah yeah
at the cottage because you know you got
a past time just being lazy and and not
that not that there's anything lazy
about a Rubik's Cube I'm an intelligent
guy though no it's it's good for
stimulating yeah and I'm an intelligent
guy but I don't think I've ever solved
it no I think I've gotten to the point
where I'm just frustrated I got like two
sides and I'm like forget this so I
actually pull the pieces out and reason
as a kid I addy stickered it and read it
so just consider that okay so I gave up
as a human yeah now this is a computer
algorithm powered by AI technology a
neural net so the closest thing to a
neural net that we've basically seen
like that we're really starting to see
these
so think like the lieutenant data starts
to think for itself so here's the
challenge so I've said to this computer
here's the challenge you need to make
the colors match yeah just over SATs a
fall that they've told it that's it
that's it that's that's the that's the
end game and the computer has said ok
boom boo-boom boo-boom figured it out
yes and trial and error and hmm maybe if
I try this and figured it out right
no and like that's amazing it is and the
fact that I did it in just over a second
like I get it a second there's no story
just over a second like it's solved it
in just over a second which is amazing
so solved it but figured it out not just
like it's not like they said okay I'm
gonna program it to turn it this way
turn it that way turn it that way no
they said this is the this is what you
need to do yeah
solve it and the computer figured it out
it is amazing technology that will
change the world yeah sure absolutely
so on the on the positive side you say
to this similar technology how can we
solve an environmental crisis how can we
get the oil spill out of the the bay
right and and it can this is the idea is
that we're gonna get to the point where
we can ask those kinds of questions of
an AI of a computer you think Google's
fast you think Google is impressive with
its results well this is gonna blow your
sure well the thing with this story that
makes me go hmm
a little bit is the fact that it solved
it in a completely different logic
pattern than the way the humans yeah it
thinks differently it does which is
wonderful but if they're looking to have
AI mimic humans to allow it to do the
work to then take that and go okay what
about this complex thing that we haven't
been able to figure out leads to logical
thought that says it's going to come up
with a solution that we can't wrap our
heads around
that's the inevitable question right how
do we control AI so I'd say the biggest
question right now and I think that is
the whole part of this story that
excites me the most is that it's not
about the Rubik's Cube it's about this
is how it thinks okay how do we adjust
the AI program
to think like we do when they could do
that shots a whole nother game changer
because then it goes hey how do we solve
the great Garbage Patch in the Pacific
Ocean that's double the size of Texas Oh
we'll go about it this way yeah there's
the answer and when Martin Ford came on
the show to talk about artificial
intelligence and and where they're at
right now as a as an author in the field
like he used examples like we do we do
need to understand the process yes that
the AI is using to get to the solution
we need to understand that we also need
to have control because a simple request
of this AI to say in the example that he
used was to make our paperclip company
more efficient and then all of a sudden
the AI takes over and and with it within
no amount of time they the AI is like
pulling resources from everywhere and
making an efficient paperclip company to
the point where now human civilization
is destroyed but paperclips are still
being manufactured very efficiently we
have to have control we have to actually
understand the process that the the AI
is is thinking right and and get our
heads around that which is tough now the
one you know if they don't think like us
I agree you know we've got the chat room
money as we're talking about this and
the food brings up another question is
how many times did the AI have to solve
the puzzle first that would be
interesting to know was it a simple oh
this is the situation I got to run some
shots okay yeah or did it actually go
through trial and error that'd be
interesting to know sure I would imagine
like and we don't have the answer to
this and it's not in the news but I
would imagine that it's like it learned
it and then it was able to solve it
better having learned it I don't think
that the one second included the
learning and figuring out how to but
then when it was presented with it
having learned how to deal with a
Rubik's Cube in the second like a human
child you would be like this can move
this way and that way so that takes time
oh yeah
yeah so you'd have to teach it so but
it's a good question so that it will
pose that to the a I will ask Intel has
unveiled its new AI system Pahokee beach
it's a neural morph morphic computer
capable of simulating 8 million neurons
neuromorphic engineering also known as
neuromorphic computing describes the use
of systems containing electronic analog
circuits to mimic neurobiological
architecture in the present nervous
system the goal of neuromorphic research
is to achieve a supercomputer a thousand
times more powerful than any today
during the DARPA electronics resurgence
initiative summit in Detroit on Monday
Intel unveiled a 64 chip computer
in total Intel labs managing director
rich uhlig said Pahokee Beach will be
made available to 60 research partners
to quote advance the field end quote and
scale up AI algorithms like spare coding
and path planning pokey Beach pack 64
low key 128 core 14 nanometer and
neuromorphic chips which were the first
detailed in October 2017 each low lie
processor has a 60 millimeter die size
and contain over 2 billion transistors
130,000 artificial neurons and 130
million synapses in addition to 3
managing Lake montt cores for task
orchestration according to Intel Loy he
processes information up to 1,000 times
faster and 10,000 times more efficiently
than traditional processors and it can
solve certain types of optimization
problems with more than three orders of
magnitude gains in speed and energy
efficiency as compared to conventional
CPU operations the chip consumes roughly
100 times less energy than widely used
CPU run simulation location and mapping
methods intel says that that later this
year will
introduced an even larger llahi system
Pahokee springs that will deliver an
unquote unprecedented a level of
performance and efficiency for
neuromorphic workloads with upwards of
100 million neurons but they didn't
cover what the giggle score is yeah
three points one do you remember when
processors had really friendly names
like Pentium yes Celeron that's so well
done everything is like a foreign word
it's really tough but you get the gist
of it - when can we add our crypto
miners to this yeah and yeah I mean
third question is like and it's not
really a question but more of a
statement seeing how technology has
progressed and hearing now that
processors are being described in terms
of neurons and positrons like this is
the stuff of Star Trek it is like we're
talking a brain this is a brain at eight
million what is it eight million neurons
so we're what a billion I think is it a
better brain than we have no no oh gosh
no no it's faster I don't know them so
yeah no this is nothing compared to a
human brain but again going back to
knowing that that computers are starting
to think yeah and that they are now
they're building a brain out of computer
chips now what I want to know though is
how does this compare to Watson Oh
Watson would be nothing compared to this
right we're talking like in the story
talking about how this can be a thousand
times faster than any supercomputer that
exists today right in our I figure how
much is in the near future
Watson yeah that's so y'all we're gonna
do this and by the way it's probably
gonna be better by the fault yeah
so again ask that question how can we
solve world hunger you know just just
answer me that well first of all yeah I
got some I got some suggestions so it's
gonna it's gonna help with that kind of
stuff right if it's in the right hands
mm-hmm and that's that it's just nuts
like I'm just
I am absolutely mind blown to the point
of tongue-tied because I put everything
like this in the context of data because
and data the the Star Trek character
because that's a positronic net that's a
neuromorphic computer right and now
we're actually okay this is like dot
like this is the the rudimentary
introductory version of hate they've got
the AI technology now so it can think
for itself it can learn how to solve a
rubik's cube in a second and we've got
the technology to make it fast and make
it to be able to think in a very very
fast manner so as like you work in tech
yeah and you do a lot of don't work in a
I like this stuff just as mine no but
you do a lot of service calls and like
people color could you imagine if there
was an AI compete like a micro version
of this that your company bought mmm
that allowed it to VPN into people's
home computers to solve their problem
automatically for them could you imagine
how that would change your industry mmm
there's a lot in my industry that's
redundant and by that I mean it's like
repetitive yes it's always the same
thing okay I think you take something
like this they can go like that yeah
like how and can talk I mean talk to
your Amazon echo and be like it sounds
like a person it does they can talk they
can so you know there's all kinds of
ominous things here but if in the right
hands this can be a very powerful tool
for good right so this has just been
unveiled and developed but autonomous
vehicles are already out there right
yeah no no but through the internet very
Wi-Fi through LTE or 5g or whatever you
want to do
it's like it's always connected yeah so
now all of a sudden you have this kind
of a brain powering the neural network
of autonomous vehicles okay do you
remember about I'm gonna say year and a
half maybe two years ago we I don't know
if it's a news story but we've talked
about autonomous vehicles and I said
wouldn't it be amazing if we can get to
the point where traffic management
through connected cars it's
instantaneous where it goes based on
people's driving patterns their work
hours yeah reading off their schedule
now we're getting to privacy and all the
kind of stuff but sure you know you know
reading off your Google Conner where you
supposed to be drive time to go and you
need to leave it this time by the way
take that exit that exit and there's a
computer somewhere that's routing all
these autonomous cars that's like you
just go I'm good at this moment and
they're making flying taxis yes and add
that to the mix all right you have no
reason to be late computer
that's an amazing point hey let's take a
quick look at the cryptocurrency market
this is how it looks here in 2019 before
the neural network allows us to mine
massive amounts of Bitcoin so right now
bitcoin is sitting at 9700 ninety two
dollars and 67 cents I'll just say
everything's down Bitcoin Bitcoin losing
though it's the biggest loser 2137
dollars and 35 cents in the- from last
week Facebook Libre is still sitting at
zero dollars and I'm gonna keep telling
you that because one day it's gonna be
worth a penny and then that's when we
know that Facebook is actually doing
what they said they're gonna do litecoin
is at ninety one dollars and three cents
down 16 and 72 cents aetherium at two
hundred and thirteen dollars and seventy
two cents
Mineiro at seventy seven fifty nine now
torque is at zero point nine six ten
thousandth of a cent and turtle coin
also losing at zero point nine eight ten
thousandth of a cent do remember if
you're going to mine if you're gonna
invest or otherwise work in
cryptocurrency it's a market that never
closes and it's a market that is always
volatile so be careful and only spend
only in bed
well you can afford to lose big thanks
to Roy W Nash and our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson and I'm Jeff Weston
thank you again for being here with us
this week we do have to take a really
quick break we'll be right back welcome
back everybody been so great having you
here this week today is a very special
day for me you know yes thank you it's
actually the big four Oh today yeah and
we mentioned that we've been together
we've got together on the weekend you
guys threw a party and four times in one
way I know one visit for every ten years
you've been alive yeah so yeah that's
that's that I feel like we put you to
work for your birthday actually I was
the barbecuer guy that's how it should
be okay have you noticed that as you add
years for your life you instantly just
become like the barbecue guy I have
found over last couple years it's like
hey you're cooking for your birthday
yeah sure I'm lying on that making the
best barbecue those are cuz good
barbecue right yeah I got a dashcam they
were they were yes Wow look at how that
worked out what did I get you got to
enjoy our social presence yes I know I
know I know yeah actually no it's good
there's a lot of fun is a lot of fun
yeah so so thank you for you didn't even
know what you're here with me so on my
birthday so I'm forever ends yeah 40
years what's the biggest tech
mind-blowing tech change well computers
were invented in that
I'm Jeff no personal computers okay
there are personal computers so my first
computer was a vic-20 oh wow yeah so I
mean that was late 70s but I I wasn't I
wasn't born until 79 so so it was it was
just shortly after it was you know made
popular that I got one and that that
takes me back I actually ordered a
vic-20 sign for the studio here did you
really and it's on its way probably from
China or something on a boat but it's
gonna hang on our wall vic-20 original
advertisement from the original that's
chroma and and incidentally celebrating
my birthday week this week as well is
the 50 years of the landing on the moon
yes which is which is pretty amazing I
mean to think thinking about the
technology now that was ten years before
my time but think of how technology has
changed since then you can actually view
and download the source code that took
America to the moon really on github
it's there that's cool yeah just amazing
stuff but how has technology changed I
mean take all of the technology from say
1969 so ten years before my time and
condense it down into a Raspberry Pi
computer right that fits in my pocket
and that's like more powerful mm-hmm
we're now talking about neural networks
and things like that it's only being 50
years since we were on the moon and and
40 years since Robbie was born so I've
seen all of this stuff change I know at
12 years of cat5 yeah to make this about
me sure that my 40th birthday is also a
Wednesday no way yeah nice not knowing
that she's got 11 years yet folks yes is
that I don't know what I'm gonna have
for breakfast tomorrow let alone or just
did the matter I she asked the AI
1881 plus 40 is it a Wednesday brilliant
so I hope you'll be here
speaking of tech and asking things yes
so while we were celebrating your
birthday on the weekend we got talking
about a particular piece of technology
the echo yes mm-hmm
it's coming tomorrow Hey oh is this the
gadget that you were talking about
tomorrow nice okay yeah so now we got to
get into some of the smart home things
that you can do like being able to turn
on and off your lights with voice
command yeah I have a nest what type of
thermostat do you have it's really nice
basic Honeywell okay well honey well may
have connectivity some of those just an
old basic one so call you know get
yourself a nest or something like that
it's really really nice to be alert yes
they're in the trees I'll tell you what
no matter where you are in the house
being able to say what's the temperature
in the house and get a response and then
say turn the temperature down a half a
degree it's really super handy like if
you're laying in bed you can say turn on
the bedroom fan oh yeah on your right
you don't even have to sit up and push
the button oh right but you can just put
the little dongle thing in the wall and
then plug your fan and you can voice
command it to turn on so here's the
funny thing
yeah you know that I've always been like
gods listen you know and my wife has
been she's like I don't need that he
listens all the time yeah no actually
what sold us was lists shopping lists
and shots and stuff that was James eater
we talked about it a couple times after
we were at your place and that is the
thing she's excited about and now yeah
I'm not a list person I'm getting
excited about it because so often will
open up the fridge it's like where is
that remaining but so you I have it
don't tell us right but I have it in the
kitchen so and this is the Amazon echo
dot that I have
and so we use up the ketchup or it's
getting low and I say keyword add
ketchup to my shopping list yeah boom
Bing it's on my phone and then when I'm
in the store this is the brilliant part
when I'm in the store it has a checklist
and I can check things off and they
vanish off of there
now I want to say because I know you're
concerned about it listening when it
shouldn't listen and I know some viewers
are have thought I don't I've heard
stories and these this has been in the
news like come on people we need to do
better journalism than this that
sometimes it will come on because it
thought you said the word right okay or
misete sounds like the key word and so
it triggers on and starts listening and
recording the conversation and sending
it to Hamazon right that's a concern of
some people so what I did is I just in
my app I set it to make a trigger tone
so every time it thinks it's heard the
word it makes itself it goes did you
hear that you know that and then I say
cancel so because our our key word is
computer so sometimes we say the word
computer in our day-to-day conversation
and it goes and we say cancel that was
gonna be my question because we have
some friends yes
the name is Alexia okay don't say it out
loud though no but that's the name but
it's without an eye but yeah yes that's
them say it's so close oh I see though
the daughter like the kid or the person
we know so it's like their name is right
so we'd be having these conversations
about yeah and it's like I don't want to
set the thing off or have it right you
know so although or whatever so what are
the options a lax
a yeah is option one that's the default
computer is another one and Amazon oh
those are your three options out of the
box now there is talk that firmware
updates may eventually and improve that
and even make it so that you can
customize it but right now it's not
possible so you have have you found that
computer is the most it's the most fun
as Trekkies okay for pewter what's the
date and it answers me
but from your day-to-day and life use
you find that that's the one that
doesn't trigger it as often no I treat
it triggers a lot see the triggers a lot
just say cancel because you hear the
tone and we say cancel hey that's all it
takes and it stops listening because it
but if you're having conversations and
you don't want it to ever listen there
is a above physical mute button and
Google Home has that as well we
considered a Google home but I did some
research
yeah and so many different reviews going
down to the specs and functions like the
echo blue the Google home out of the
water yeah and I found it's that's my
preference I have both yeah I haven't
plugged in the Google dot interestingly
nothing we did the review in the studio
they're nice but the Google impressed me
more yeah really we did that show I
think it's a matter of preference to me
yeah and they're both very usable
devices right and a lot of the stuff is
compatible with both you buy the light
and it'll work on either doesn't mean I
have a fire stick right no I have I have
the ability to access right because I
can talk through it single home mini but
you have an amazon firetv stick yes yeah
talk to one another but it does mean
that I can also talk to her yeah well
but when you ask the Google home Mini to
do something with the fire TV stick does
it go never make them talk to you folks
we're right at a time it's been a lot of
fun having you here on my birthday
Starbucks gave me a free venti latte
today yeah my birthday that's like a
mortgage payment they just say oh my
goodness and they wished me a happy
birthday on twitter which was like
thanks Starbucks don't you love what any
of your tweets I imagine that it was a
real barista somewhere somewhere I got a
friend who's a manager now
that's right have a wonderful week
everybody it's been great having you
here don't forget we're on Twitter
category-five TV you can also follow me
personally
robbie ferguson also we're on youtube as
category 5 TV as well as linux tech show
subscribe to both of those for all of
our notifications we post different
things to different channels and those
are our two main ones we're also in the
roku channel store so you'll find us
with a quick search and we're on plex
and cody if you go to my github it's
github.com slash cat 5 TV have a great
week everybody yeah see ya
