we did we shot the model the first
season and then as we have grown we've
kind of you know put a couple extra
scrapes and dents into that sexy model
but we didn't want to put it into the
actual model so we've taken those mocap
that mocap information and we've updated
the actual modeled so that it blends in
with that season so it's not like oh
wait this is from that season but we
just you know mm-hmm we loved it so much
we don't want to replace the ship so we
still use the technique as if it was
model shooting but it is a lot of
digital right and you're talking mocap
aka motion capture so you're bringing an
actual physical model into a virtual
world is that the idea yes so the whole
paradigm of how to shoot these has been
flipped on its head yeah I remember old
days the old cranes that had to go into
it so how are you shooting it like are
you putting it on a stage and just
taking shots or into you know our nuke
scripts or anything and tracked on and
put you know stars in the background or
whatever planets and stuff just so that
it had that real camera feel so that you
felt like you know that camera is in
space and it's looking at that ship and
then as we progress through season 2 in
season 3 we kind of lost the actually
shoot it on set but we haven't lost the
feel the feel and the you know technique
of actually like okay so we're going you
know over under around the ship we still
want to feel like real cat is in
space and you guys this hat would be on
the fly that's check it out we really
try not to do anything that I that ate
at a real live camera couldn't capture
in some way even if it's somebody in a
fake spaceship following along with our
real spaceship yeah because that's the
minute you lose all sense of reality but
we could there's no way in hell that
this baby behind us we can put it to
those kind of contortions and or some of
the more stuff we've gotten more
ambitious and more complicated in our
our sequences so we've literally break
the model no not I'm not even being
figurative we literally break yeah I
know the digital model does you know it
does have a real-world scale so it is
you know hundreds of feet wide high you
know so we do have those dimensions so
when it is flying in battle we're not
you know it's like a feather in space
like we're actually like okay this thing
is you know 80 million tons
how would it actually go through space
how does that kind of work obviously
like there's not a real fire in space my
NASA friends are telling me that that so
it's not real but we are still trying to
make it feel and you know have it depict
what it might look like as far as we
know what that kind of stuff looks like
now
