I am actually using this on a Raspberry
Pi microcomputer on our kks B 13 inch
touchscreen and so this is what it looks
like on my screen and I'm actually
controlling that with my touch screen as
well I've got a keyboard here which I'll
just kind of have handy just in case I
need it
but sometimes what can happen with the
GNU image manipulation program keep in
mind this is a free kind of Photoshop
alternative but you can get a little bit
confused in that hey there these windows
are kind of you know all over the place
see this so if I want to exit the
program how do you think I do that well
typically you know we're used to
pressing the X so if I let's grab this
window over here and I know you can't
see my mouse cursor so I'm just going to
show you which window I am touching I'm
going to click on the X there thinking
that I'm going to close the GNU image
manipulation program
well now it's still up but I have no
tools I can't I can't find my way to
okay how do I get things back up and you
know so I can click around and oh no
what have I done
okay let's exit I'm gonna click on the X
over here I'm trying
me and my sausage fingers almost there
now I've just got this picture and so
now what do I do and this is absent yeah
hit the X okay so let's try it okay so
now I've got I've lost my picture now
let's hit the X or I'll hit f4 on my
keyboard I guess I could do there we go
okay so now I'm good to go so let's
let's reopen the GIMP so now I've you
know come back to it the next day and
let's see I'm gonna I'm gonna start
working on some photos here
welcome to the GNU image manipulation
program 2.10 and oh where's your stuff
okay I need to add text to this photo
all right how do I do that Jeff
Filters no image no so you see kind of
what I'm saying right you can get
because of the way that the interface is
if you're not familiar with it it can
get really really confusing so I'm going
to show you a really really fast way to
redeem it okay but then also a way to
prevent this from happening again in the
future so I'm gonna hit edit and then
preferences in preferences there is one
called window management you see that
it's highlighted black now and there's a
button at the bottom of it that says
reset saved window positions to default
values I'm gonna click that and it says
your window setup will be reset to
default values the next time you start
GIMP so I'm going to say okay sounds
good okay and then I'm gonna close the
GIMP again and now let's reopen the GNU
image manipulation program I'm using a
flat pack here so you can install this
on Windows Mac Linux it's absolutely
free and now okay so now this has
actually put me in single window mode
now I want to show you that though
because you may not get that
automatically so now you see all of my
tools are back so I've got my you know
all of the editing tools I've got my
text editor there you go so I can change
my font and all that kind of stuff right
I've got it back now so that's how I can
quickly recover after I've accidentally
closed all of us those tools right
really really fast way to fix it but
then again now we saw really briefly
there what's called single window mode
so now what I want to do is I want to
actually click Windows and then see at
the bottom there yeah single window mode
it may or may not be the default on your
system but by doing that now when I
maximize that window it's all part of
the interface so these buttons and
everything are now integrated into the
interface so you're not going to
accidentally close them there's no X
there anymore so now if I hit the X it
actually closes GIMP and I have to
reopen it again let's reopen it and see
what it looks like now
now remember I'm running this on a
Raspberry Pi 3 not a B+ just a 3b and
it's running pretty good yeah there we
go so let's let's open an image and now
it's actually opening it within the same
window so I'm not gonna have that
problem anymore
where I'm losing things and now if I
click on X here I can actually close the
image but there you go so a real quick
fix for the GNU image manipulation
program grab it at gimp.org and do check
out single window mode if if you're
fairly new to the interface why would
you want it in separate windows any
guesses no it's just like stupid in case
you use dual screens I use when I use
triple screens Jeff I have so my I have
a monitor right in front of me that is
turned vertical so it's actually like
this yeah in front of me then on either
side I have my tools that make sense and
I can drag things from screen to screen
and I can do all the editing that way so
in that way it works very very well and
I can actually maximize each window to
each screen and it's fantastic but if
you're using one screen
yeah that's fantastic but as you're just
learning or you're using just one screen
switch it to single window mode it's
gonna save you a lot of grief yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
