I can't imagine you improving your mood
but the device that you wanted to show
us today is a mood enhancer let me just
first say that this is a failed
Christmas gift in that aside this is a
gift that I bought for Dave oh it's one
of those like the times when I buy back
of the things that I want like I didn't
buy it
I bought it for Dave okay Dave doesn't
sleep well at night and so I wanted
something that would regulate his sleep
pack stop kicking him when you're
sleeping changes circadian rhythm right
and and that can be done by exposure to
light right yeah and so I mean I say
yeah like I know I'm gonna show it to
you I'm gonna blind okay so this is
called a happy life this is a full
spectrum therapy light from cat five TV
slash happy light break will I break
everything if I turn this off this well
I mean it's super bright let's try it
would say turn it on camera first no
turn it toward the camera I think people
really need to see okay just turn down
the brightness on your TV guys it's not
bad because our camera will compensate
for it but the Sun it is the Sun without
UV yes so it's the same brightness as
the Sun right it's it generates like a
faux Sun light like it mimics the the
good qualities of sunlight right so the
I guess it makes you rhythm think about
what the Sun does to a your mood that is
what this is to do cheer mood right
she's my first thing in the morning now
I wake up and I sit in front of that
light for 20 minutes
oh well and now I'm not a doctor it
could be a placebo effects has it only
been using it have your eyes open yeah
but it's not pointed at your eyes I have
been sleeping better so I I have a sleep
tracker and I've been sleeping better
with this we'll see that's interesting
you use a sleep tracker on your yes so
you can actually legitimately say yes
this is having a good impact exactly so
I use that from 5:00 to 5:20 a.m. but
I'm sleeping literally right so it's
affecting my whole day now I found that
I'm a happy person already but I found a
couple of times and it wasn't ongoing
but a couple of times I'd like a little
spurt of like I felt like lifted right
like I just and I think that it has
something to do with the way you feel on
us on a sunny summer day or something
right right you have that little extra
month it's supposed to be yeah a mood
enhancer it's supposed to limit your
cravings to carbohydrates really help I
need that it's supposed to help you
change your circadian rhythm so I leave
e8 jetlag if you're a traveler that's
interesting it would help against you
know that all of the complaints about
daylight savings time that would help
right and all you need to do it's very
small right it looks like a tablet yes
and I was looking I was wondering if it
like how many volts it was it is like a
barrel plug yep so it's not it's
nineteen point two volts zero point six
five amps that's the device itself the
input power and it's just a button to
turn it on yeah oh what's up here yeah
so that's a shiny head my goodness and I
love it
sorry Dave so okay you said it was
failed like no Dave looked at it and he
thought this is a great idea and then he
turned it on he said never okay so they
just didn't bother trying yeah so the
way you're supposed to like the way I
point it is I point it at me but not
like directly right so I am you know on
discord first thing in the morning
that's when I check drinking my coffee
and this thing's kind of pointed at the
side of my face my eyes are open it's
not like straight on that would be mean
to my face now how bright is that like
if say you put it in your bathroom in
the morning and instead of turning on
your bathroom light you turn that on
would be that would be bright enough
that as you're doing your morning
routine getting ready for work
that would light up your bathroom and be
just enough light its sunlight too so
like 10,000 Lux at like what is it 5600
Kelvin like awesome I feel like it would
be easy to integrate into it a daily
routine okay as long as you are willing
to suffer through the fact that when you
turn it on at first you're drawn to look
at it and oh yes right that's right you
have to teach yourself to turn it on and
look away you know I would like to point
out that they're talking about health
stuff and the word suffer just came in
an upset
don't stare directly into the light post
it is CSA approved it's also listed with
ETL and it doesn't generate blue light I
mentioned also that there is no UV so I
guess that means like it's better for
your skin yeah it's better for your eyes
then a natural sunlight you're not gonna
have to worry about skin cancer or
sunburn presumably those kinds of things
right so and it just the benefits it has
helped me that is interesting that's
cool cat5 TV slash happy light keep us
posted on that I'd love to to learn more
about that at school I used to use a Sun
tanning booth when I was young and I
remember the the effects the benefits of
that feeling like great after you're
done
once my skin started boiling I realize
this is not free so that's good
