welcome back this is category five
technology TV now we were you were
joking during the break there what did
you say I said oh we probably did that
about a year ago about a year ago we
looked at ePaper tablets from new yes
and it was in fact episode number 557
which happened on May 23rd 2018 now
we're recording this on May 28th 2019
bang right on now new yes have sent us a
couple of new versions of their tablets
so these are ePaper tablets from cap 5
dot TV / e paper and they wanted us to
show you that they've progressively been
improving things as they go so now we've
both purchased some of their tablets
before how have they worked out for you
very well yeah yes they're affordable
yeah like I mean like dirt cheap by
comparison to two other products that
are out there but the nice thing about
them is that they do save a lot of paper
exactly on my desk I use a lot of note
paper every time someone picks up every
time someone calls me I write down their
name so that I can continually refer to
their name during the phone call I like
that personal touch and I want to
provide that personal touch as a support
person and and so that's important to me
but I was going through a lot of paper
so I looked up new yes and ice and I
started using a paper from from them and
and with that now I didn't realize but
somebody has actually done the math and
this tablet right here yes saves up to
100,000 sheets of paper Wow and it's
affordable like it's like going to the
store and buying maybe three packs of
printer paper like five hundred sheets
of paper times like that's what it would
cost me and this is what I get so let's
let's just kind of jump into the boxes
here so I've got two here so the first
one I have is an 8.5 inch LCD writing
tablet
of Environmental Protection assess of
environmental protection so it is you
know they've obviously found that niche
market where they want to very
specifically they are marketing to like
the oh there's the the back and there is
the problem so they have changed the
design every oh wow is it ever thin they
made me like it better look at that it
is very thin I don't know even how I can
show I mean you can see that it's about
a quarter of an inch so we've got the
pen here let's see here if I can just
pop that out yes there we go and so with
ePaper I can just write on it and I'm
obviously just writing upside down just
scribbling here just to show you that
that is as marvelous as it as it is and
push the delete button up here if it's
not locked it is locked let's see so how
does this lock at the top oh there's a
lock switch at the back it looks like so
this switch here I'm just gonna flip
that the lock switch allows you to
protect the content unlock and there we
go it allows you to protect the content
so that if you're writing something in a
meeting or something you don't
accidentally push that on that clear
button and it just uses a cr2032 so like
basically just a like a dollar store
watch style battery that you would put
in your computer and this is what it
looks like so you know that's the
contrast do you want to actually write
something instead of yeah just drawing a
line so sash is actually going to write
something because her handwriting
actually makes sense it doesn't but
doesn't it you'll all get it okay
so this one of course the links are a
cat5 dot TV / e paper let's jump over
there you see that nice okay so that one
that I've got it locked right now okay
so I shall
clear it off now we haven't really
looked at the like okay so there is some
documentation here what does it show us
okay it has partial deletion what I
don't know what that means how to use
partial deletion function press the
partial deletion button one time you can
see a red LED yeah you can use our pen
to erase the contents no freaking way
are you serious so you can in fact erase
may I yeah you may know the other side
no way is it working it totally is may i
yes okay so I'm gonna I'm gonna clear
the screen I'm gonna jump over here that
is cool okay so I'm just gonna like do a
line here you know whatever blah blah
blah okay so I'm gonna push this button
does it okay and I'm using the like the
reverse side like an eraser oh yeah
actually able to erase no way so like if
I was using this for doodling or
something or if I just needed to make
like modifications to what I was writing
down no way that's an improvement for
sure that I was not expecting and I am
very impressed good job that is cool
very good new yes okay let's get into
the next one okay you want to do this
one this one is the box is entirely in a
foreign language so Sasha you break
window though I'd say anything it could
absolutely say anything it's swearing at
us
what is this okay okay how does this one
look okay this one looks good it push
the button to clear it oh I have to
unlock it probably worse where's the
lock okay down here alright although I
will say out of the box I was scared
because it had like lines up it had
lines but also the line seemed not all
the same color you know why because they
may have like stacked boxes on
top of it or who knows right so pull it
up there I'm gonna get right in there
does this one so this is this looks very
very similar to the ones that we had
purchased previously but see what I see
what I'm saying like it's brighter than
they used to look
it's rainbow look at that I totally see
that okay so you've got like a rainbow
colorization that's fun for the kids
right now I don't know if there's any
way to change that I don't I think that
is the setting of this particular device
and and so it is actually and they've
actually got the lettering on here you
can see that it's actually distinguished
as being like a I can't read that maybe
you can read that maybe this is a good
opportunity for me to pull out my phone
which has AI in it and say let's try to
read this can we try that yeah this pen
is blue okay okay so I'm gonna actually
try to read this let's see what it says
so this says new yes 8.5 inch color
screen model new yes I'm going to show
you what I've actually got here cool AI
is fantastic folks so this has actually
translated the box for me it says 8.5
inch color screen models new yes
electronic LCD tablet writing and
painting smooth and true such as paper
saves say goodbye to paper paperless
office saves three trees saves three
tree it uses low energy technology and
it can support repeatedly writing on it
more than 100,000 times that's what it
picked up from the that's a Chinese
writing yeah with the rainbow it doesn't
say anything about the rainbow but the
text is in rainbow and so I must assume
therefore that it is a spectrum here
it's a lot brighter than they used to be
do you see that and when I say brighter
so I want to be clear about these so
paper is not an illuminated surface so
you're gonna show that yeah so you've
just kind of scribble just to show the
color how it's not bad oh it's quite
legible I'd I would have skipped maybe
the blue yeah like the green in the
order for sure I love it as I say though
that's that's fun but at the same time I
mean it looks good but when I say it's
brighter it like has a lot of contrast
to the background but it's not actually
illuminated so you do need a light in
order to see these you pick either of
these up at cat5 dot TV / E paper and
it's good to see that they've you know
in the past year have improved them even
further and I'm really excited about the
fact that this one has an eraser I love
that that is just too cool really like
both of them yeah different reason
they're really this one looks a lot like
the one that we had last year yes but
just an improved version with the kind
of rainbow screen that's all that's
that's the main difference is this
brighter has a rainbow screen and that
is all yeah my kids love them I mean and
we've saved a lot of paper around the
house because they use them for
sketching and things like that
[Music]
[Applause]
