we had our first-ever category-five crew
conversation last week and this week
it's time for our first-ever
category-five crew conversations cupcake
[Music]
so who do you think did the best with
our crew conversations let me just
remind you if you're just joining us
Jeff you covered topics like Chromebooks
for school yes for the education sector
there are your children yes you covered
raspberry pie microcomputers as
minecraft server is yes I on the other
hand the clear winner covered using 3d
printers to save money because the price
of 3d printers has come down so far I
posed the question could I actually save
money to to spend it on a 3d printer and
I think the answer is yes I also talked
about using a pan tilt head from a DMX
light which is a like a little think of
a DJ light that you know moves around
and and and the DJ can control that with
a DMX controller which is like pretty
typical and we have one here and putting
a Raspberry Pi HQ camera in the body of
that and using the 3d printer to reprint
the face to make it work so you can
still use the lights but you've got the
camera when we went through this oh no
way then I'm coming out ahead because
those are flippin cool ideas flippin
cool you heard it really cool Wow I
covered some crazy awesome stuff but you
have it your your mum was watching Oh
what did I pull out the win tell me
honestly did you vote for your own
videos no no I did not vote for my own
videos I also did not vote for my own
videos Geoff came out on top 25 percent
now I think your your topic of
using a Raspberry Pi as a minecraft
server really tipped you over the edge
because people seem to really love that
we got some comments yes people talking
about because was the most voted for
video content or and they loved it like
people were talking about how this is
something that I've been thinking about
thank you for doing this thank you for
talking about this yeah I worked on this
more and I do have an update based on
their conversation oh can you tell us a
little bit about that yeah I've already
kind of announced who gets the cupcake
but yeah so I did get the server up and
running and for a single user to log in
it was not bad okay as soon as my kids
joined not so good oh yeah I had three
computers so I got the the logins
activated and it just hmm so I would not
use the three B+ okay here so now I've
got it on a no droid I'm going the next
step up Oh droid x u 4x u 4 with 2 gigs
of ram with two the MMC are using SD I'm
using EMM see I've got a 64 gig emmc on
there you know which is way more than I
need for the server you say that but
then your kids become master builder
well exactly and that's why I went with
a bigger one I debated on the 128 but
I'm like I think that's a bit of
overkill right now for minecraft server
but I so the Raspberry Pi 3 B+ was too
slow
going beyond multiple a single user and
I think even if it was speedy enough to
run multiple users by the time they
start creating and building and all that
it would slow right down so now I'm
trying it on the Xtreme I guess that
world gen yeah it's on Raspberry Pi and
we'll see how that goes well you don't
have an update for us yet no oh darn it
Jeff what are these like an old water so
much I gosh dude so I've got install I
just haven't done the the test yet
you're gonna fill us in on this yes of
course goodness and and if if the xu4 is
a little bit slow then I will go with
the Raspberry Pi
here is what is nice about going with
the Raspberry Pi for you've already
created it for the Raspberry Pi 3 B+
correct so all you have to do is take
the SD card out of the three B+ pop it
in a Raspberry Pi four that's right and
turn it on
that's right because it's already I
figured is beautiful
yes that's what Raspberry Pi has going
for it is that it is forward compatible
it's not backward compatible if it like
you have to a well not backward
compatible no that's not right
what I mean is that an old distro from a
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ will not work on a new
Raspberry Pi 4 because they changed the
bootloader yes however as long as you do
like an well I presume it's a new
version of Raspberry Pi os yes yeah it
was the most rigid so it's going to work
on a Raspberry Pi 4 or a Raspberry Pi 0
whatever but the performance will be
impacted if you have a distro that's
been built on a Raspberry Pi 3 B+ that's
not compatible with a raspberry pi 4 you
can do a dist upgrade exactly and that
will actually make it compatible with
the Raspberry Pi do ya apt update and
then enter and then apt upgrade and then
enter and then apt dist - upgrade and
that's all you need to do on a Raspberry
Pi 3 or 0 don't paint anything in
between in order to make it compatible
with a Raspberry Pi floor so you can
take that SD card and move it into
another into a faster system you cannot
take that SD card out of the Raspberry
Pi 3 and plug it into an X you for from
override because they are not compatible
right yeah but the Odroid has twice as
much RAM mm-hmm way more storage
MMC is so much faster than SD cards
especially on the pre PI 4 yeah because
those were really slow SD card readers
and the reason I went with if I what if
I had a Raspberry Pi for yeah one of you
I would just would have gone from the 3
to the 4 but because I have not
purchased a Raspberry Pi for yet the
extra 4 is what I had and so that's why
I'm giving it
that wonderful as I was doing anything
I've thought about our conversation last
week you like all what about they were
dry and what about the you know and so
I'm like here here's the progression on
we're so we can you know I'll be able to
report back and say this was the
difference now I I should have fought to
do like benchmarks and stuff between the
two but yeah but you know yo you can
tell when you're playing minecraft if
world gen is bad yes yeah so Jeff on
that now enjoy your gourmet cupcake oh I
will from our local bakery I will and
while Jeff does that I'm actually gonna
mosey on over to the bridge and I want
to show you my new clock interesting see
ya two seconds later
[Applause]
