covering the week's top textbooks like
Linux bias we're in an Antarctic afriend
is Google and Google Earth user has
found a 2,000 foot structure emerging
from the smell Google Earth users have
claimed for years that there are
mysteries lying beneath the Antartica
ice and now Google uses their Google
Earth user mr. M BB 333 thinks he may
have discovered a gigantic building in
Antarctica in footage shared a couple of
weeks back he zooms in on the location
to find what seems like a huge square
emerging from the ice the narrator
explains quote from the top to bottom
it's nearly 2,000 feet unbelievable I
didn't think it was that big it's six
football fields long that's massive it's
very large very symmetrical and looks
like a building this could be a random
piece of ice I suppose it is kind of
offshore maybe it's some sort of
building but that is HUGE end quote
well many are speculating what the shape
could be others are less convinced
suggesting it was nothing more than an
unusual shaped block of ice Antarctica
is often the center of conspiracy
theories it was so-called truth seekers
believing that beneath the layer of snow
and ice lies remnants of everything from
ancient civilizations to Nazi bases
back in August another Google Earth user
believed that they had spotted a
gigantic statue of a face and just two
weeks ago one person claimed to have
spotted a huge two mile long ancient
wall rising above the ice the so called
monolith was compared to Azeroth
a massive structure built in ancient
Mesopotamia and Iran isn't that cool
that we live in a time right now that we
as like just average users at home can
look from the satellite basically down
on the area like like that's sci-fi from
the 80s right there yeah okay but here's
what I have to say about this and I I
don't know whether or not these
structures actually
exist but to me it's reminiscent of like
gazing at the clouds and being like I
see a hippopotamus I don't know it looks
pretty much like a structure to me it
could be a structure it could be great
Google Earth murder mystery no never
heard of the doc with the blood splatter
and the trail into the water No
and everybody was freaking out about
this murder scene you know about this
yes this happened probably five six
years ago and everybody was freaking out
that they had that Google Earth had
taken a snapshot of a murder scene
oh and because you see the doc you see
the the trail of blood to the water this
has gotten really morbid right but that
wooden turns out yeah it was a guy with
his dog and the dog was jumping in the
water running around running across the
dock and it was the wet dock and I made
it look like blood so the point of this
is just because you see it on Google
Earth doesn't mean it is what you think
it is that's true but there's not a
whole lot of action going on in
Antarctica it doesn't matter you can't
look at something as a topographical
view it's a 2,000 feet tall
look at that it's the it's actually the
shadow of a penguin
right like come on I will say I spend
some time in Google Earth on my VR like
if I sometime I mean on the daily
because I love to travel around and just
see places so I now need to go to
Antarctica because I haven't I just I
mean I don't first off it's Antarctica
so no matter where where you are in the
world at the end of it not the world but
like this time of year you're always
gonna have the Sun at a very horizontal
angle so it's good to create different
shot that's why that penguin looks like
a giant exactly yeah I'm not buying it I
don't think so I don't think it's a
2,000 foot structure the amount of
planes it's not gonna happen
I think the only valid use for Google
Earth is to see where viewers are
watching from right now right and and so
by clicking on to map cat5 TV we can
start to see just outside of the royal
town of Sutton Coldfield we've got
viewers and we should be able to zoom
all over the place yeah viewers all
where are we right now
no you're quite zoomed in I know oh
there's Denmark yeah we know Denmark so
this is this is a valid use for do we
maybe we can find our viewers in
Antarctica oh it's gonna I'm never
watching from a 2,000 foot structure
yeah oh we're yeah
there's somebody in Iceland nobody no no
not the same listen to you okay I'm
trying to I'm trying to circumnavigate
here and it doesn't yeah it's in live
mode so it doesn't like interactivity
but hey map cat five TV is it a penguin
or is it a structure it's that's the
question comment below
you
[Music]
